[Music]
you
with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in
conference rooms of any ELISA they are
unanimous hate for me and I patron we
must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday September 3rd 2019
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
hurricane Dorian destroys the Bahamas
now headed to Florida as Trump for putz
[Applause]
new UN report us maybe complicit in
Yemenis war crimes
Saudi Arabia kills more and renewed
calls in the Senate to end our funding
meanwhile across the pond Boris Johnson
loses the majority in parliament and I
have no idea what any of it means none
of it meanwhile in the wake of yet
another shooting mass shooting seven
dead 21 injured Texas loosens its gun
laws and the September debate will
happen over one night it is now a 3-way
race as Warren gained some momentum
Bernie introduces a medical debt relief
plan and Joe Biden makes up stories in
descending into madness
[Applause]
in wild Trump's assaults on government
functions continue Monsanto works with
Republicans to curb our regulatory
agencies and to attacked scientists over
glyphosate meanwhile France tries to
revive the Iran nuke deal
Trump locks up asylum cases and softens
on deporting the desperately ill mass
protests continue in Hong Kong and
Modi's oppression of Kashmir may get us
all blown up
lastly nine months later Democrats
launched an inquiry into the Trump
campaigns hush money payments all this
and more on today's program yes ladies
and gentlemen we are back we are live
welcome thank you all for waiting for us
to return he had I got a lot of tweets
and it was rough out there we had the
wait what the letter hack is that the
name of the the the podcast guy who does
the cartoons is it he did it he did a
couple of funny cartoons in our absence
that I that I appreciated
we should have pulled those baby will
show them tomorrow and just want to also
give a shout-out to benders dad he he
had a heart attack had angioplasty
apparently is doing well I'm gonna give
him one of these
quick recovery hopefully and hope he's
feeling better folks thanks for joining
us
hope you enjoyed the vacation shows it
appears that many of you did and I'm
glad you you it was it's the letter hack
is the name of the yeah check out the
letter hacks Twitter feed and you will
see some some pretty amazing cartoons
with a quick turnaround its got like a
factory I feel of people who are drawing
those things but appreciate your your
checking out the show in our absence and
glad you could join us now hope your
Labor Day weekend was was good I you
know let me get this right out of the
way with with what's going on in Great
Britain you know I tried not to follow
the news over the course of vacation I
you know like I can't totally help
myself in those situations and I found
particularly when it came to what's
going on in in England to be a like a
it's the the functional equivalent of
like a money pit like buying a house
that is in just incredible disrepair and
you you pull off you'd start to do the
demo and you pull off the the drywall
and then you're like oh no I'm ATS and
how they feel we've got mold now I need
mold remediation and yeah I tried to
follow what was going on with they're
gonna suspend Parliament for just a
couple of days so that he can get a no
deal brexit or then actually what he
really wanted was his gambit to suspend
Parliament to fail so they go round and
it's a that well we tried to get the No
Deal brexit but we couldn't and then it
appears that he's lost support look let
me just say this get a constitution can
we just clear this up
it's not a bad idea you got to write
down directions you need directions
let's all go and then he will go to His
Majesty's Privy Council leave the House
of Lords out of it though
this is leave the House of Lords out but
in all honesty leader of the Liberal
Democrat proximately 25 minutes to enter
the room this is Emma coalitional claps
however if tourist routes and meets with
the Queen at 9.40 two hours then the
Parliament stays in session for four
days however they cannot pass a single
piece of legislation it's really not
that complicated please cover this more
on the program well that's the thing is
that I desperately want to be able to
cover this it is obviously a huge import
and and has the potential to be of huge
import for decades to come
I say the life of me I can't understand
any of it
I don't know what's going on anymore I
can't figure it out I think this is part
of the problem deeper in and I get lost
and I don't know where I am and then I
get nervous I think this is part of the
problem which is that and we will cover
it certainly and it it does matter but I
think part of what's happening in the UK
is grappling with the psychology that it
really actually doesn't matter as much
as they want it to for the world Wow
like a big part of I mean look it's not
good but you're talking about going from
being a globe spanning you know Empire
to frankly an if they and if brexit does
happen in a No Deal fashion a peripheral
mid rank city-state off of Europe that
will not have much global influence at
all well then the question becomes what
follows in its wake you know what
lessons are drawn from others is as to
the the import of this this one might
actually be a negative lesson this one
might actually be a maybe we don't want
to follow that particular trend it's
this doesn't look that hot no but we
will you know will endeavor to to cover
it to the extent that we can but I just
don't want to get out there and start
talking about something that I
you know have just very little grasp on
now I'm willing to say that up front and
say that I'm not going to get up on a
stage or in front of a microphone and
talk about something I know very little
about
apparently the odds on favorite for our
next Democratic nominee he has no such
compunction now this is really really
stunning and there was a Monmouth poll
that came out maybe last week that
showed Biden Warren and Sanders
essentially effectively tied at around
1920 percent
I think Mon mouth itself backed off this
poll said it was an outlier and in by
all by all accounts it appears to be an
outlier I I still stand by my prediction
that within two months Joe Biden will be
third in the polls we'll see I'm getting
I'll be honest with you I'm getting a
little nervous about that one but I'm
getting more nervous about the idea that
this guy could enter into the general
election with a party that sees him as
weakened before even gets there that
there is no fired up Joe Biden
constituency and that he will be unable
to gain any momentum and this isn't just
about gas folks I mean what this is is
not a gaffe I don't even know what to
call it
was it was it a gaffe when he basically
borrowed Neil kennix story life story
and plagiarized it I don't know but I
don't even know how to characterize
those again in his response little gaff
okay here it is here is he's speaking in
New Hampshire and this is a pretty
dramatic
talk speech he's giving but here it is
do we have the whole thing on uncut wait
don't we have the clip uncut or is it no
just this oh it's just in this news pack
alright well let's let's just watch it
this is a news clip from NBC reporting
this it's a moving war story that Joe
Biden has told before this guy climbed
down a ravine carried this guy up on his
back under fire that he was in
Afghanistan as vice president when he
was asked to pin a Silver Star on a
heroic Navy captain I said sir I don't
want a damn thing do not turn it on me
sir please sir do not do that he died he
died but according to the Washington
Post almost every detail of that story
he told Friday appears to be incorrect
that he was conflating elements from
multiple actual events including when he
pinned a bronze star on this army staff
sergeant Chad workman ultimately the
Post reports Biden got the time period
the location the heroic act the type of
metal the military branch and the rank
of the recipient wrong as well as his
own role in the ceremony what what was
left I'm a compulsive liar and of losing
my faculties that a guy rejected the men
a meadow apparently right look into you
that's truth my word as a Biden
my word is despise Biden - yeah let's go
back a little bit because I sort of
think that when you say the the God's
truth and you are I mean I don't know
what the answer is here is he is he like
he's so kin he's so confused it he's
conflating these three different stories
or he's in B he's decided to sort of
like you know take some fiction with it
or I don't know what at the time period
the location the heroic act the type of
metal the military branch and the rank
of the recipient wrong as well as his
own role in the ceremony the God's truth
my word as a Biden asked tonight if he
conflated multiple stories Biden told a
South Carolina newspaper no I don't
think so
the central point is it was absolutely
accurate what I said he refused the
medal um and I guess he addressed this
more you know after the fact he doesn't
think that this is it's important I mean
here here it well they'll assist here is
his explanation in a point about a
generation that has nothing to do with
the judgment of what not you sent troops
to war the judgment of whether you bring
someone home the judgment of whether or
not you decided in a health care policy
judgment but details could you do
something I've heard from some voters
maybe not at your events but in detail
but the details are irrelevant in terms
of decision making if in fact I forget
that it was Rodriguez of all the times
I've been in and out of Afghanistan and
Iraq and Bosnia Kosovo as much as
anybody except maybe my deceased friend
John McCain and maybe Lindsey Graham all
right so there is details not irrelevant
when it comes to judgment making these
important decisions look here's the the
problem if you are someone who believes
like I am that Donald Trump must be
defeated to the extent that you know if
it's Joe Biden and Donald Trump I'm
gonna vote for Joe Biden of course I'm
even gonna I mean when you think about
it in fact I'm probably gonna try not to
think about it but the problem is is
that in a general election stories that
say he got the time wrong the place
wrong the rank wrong the military
service wrong his role in the ceremony
wrong he got it all wrong stories that
say that are going to be a liability
regardless of what your perspective is
and what it's going to do is it's going
to it's it's going to depress turnout
the only thing this guy remembers
clearly as all the Republicans he's
friends with yeah well he definitely
wanted to push that and you know there's
a lot of evidence that that
whole notion him appealing to the John
McKay is just simply not gonna work it
didn't work last time and there's no
reason to believe that someone's gonna
take Joe Biden's word for it as to
whether Donald Trump is a good guy or a
bad guy what this is is a combination of
when he's told the story in this way for
over three years apparently before start
to pin a silver medal on a young captain
I have been asked in a Forward Operating
Base in the middle of a godforsaken
nowhere in the upper corner Valley and
Afghanistan to pin a Silver Star on a
young coincidentally Navy captain and
what they call a fob a Forward Operating
Base pin medals on silver stars on
soldiers up in the upper cone are Valley
in the middle of a firestorm the poor
guys have gone through young Navy
captain Navy Navy up in the mountains
and the cone our valley Afghanistan who
had pulled a badly wounded gunner to
safety returning fire to repel the enemy
and then and then keeping his a buddy
alive until medevac arrived who had
pulled someone out of a burning Humvee
risking his life one of his buddies got
shot fell down a ravine about 60 feet
high he just got laid Alvey now
revealing his back under fire he had
gone down a ravine to rescue one of his
men who had been shot brought him back
under a hail of gunfire who was wounded
but the young man died I know it sounds
a little corny but I don't think there
was a dry eye in the house and the
general wanted me to pin the silver we
don't need to let me look over the over
the years the stories involved it's just
sort of like I mean tell Bob's Burgers
story yeah I mean the problem is
you know like I the the the problem is
just simply that there is just a
tremendous amount of risk when it comes
to Joe Biden and in many respects put
away all the other issues that people
had with Hillary Clinton put away all
the the arguments that people make about
about her strategy about James Comey
about I mean all of it put that aside
for a moment one of the things that made
that put pressure on Clinton to not make
any other mistakes or to not have any
other things impact her campaign was the
fact that there was a certain amount of
baggage that she came in with that was
not a function of anything other than a
30 year campaign by Republicans to you
know basically have a cottage industry
against her and Joe Biden's gonna come
in with a similar set of baggage that I
think is highly problematic so I don't
know it's a little bit scary
I actually think and maybe this is we
wanna dismiss this but I think there's
an I think false memory is a really
powerful thing that we don't really
understand and I think he's genuinely
like conflating all these things
together in his mind there's no doubt I
I think that's true I do think that's
true the problem is is that when you
have a candidate who is running on
pablum okay this is not a situation
where like you know Bernie Sanders
Elizabeth Warren they're not getting up
there and telling homespun stories about
themselves and their candidacy is not a
function of that Joe Biden is not
running on policy right Joe Biden is
running on character Joe by then this is
the same I mean this is exactly the same
 we were saying about Hillary
Clinton that he wants to run on his CV
in this instance it's a even a narrower
CV insofar as it's about his character
and his morals and you can trust me and
the problem with that
is is that you become susceptible to
stuff like this Elizabeth Warren is not
running on that Bernie Sanders is not
running on that they're running on
proposals they're running on
prescriptions for the country of course
they're running against Donald Trump but
when you rely on just sort of this you
know this more ethereal stuff this
character stuff when you do stuff like
this it inhibits your sales pitch and it
you know and if there is anything if
there is any fight that Donald Trump can
compete in it's on this territory he
cannot compete on questions of policy
Trump party said he's losing us fast
ball yeah I mean that's basically it
mm-hmm and and that's what's so
dangerous about about if it's too
grouchy old men losing it
Trump is gonna be pretty annoyed at that
game it's not even a question of him
being data joy it's the idea of like and
this is what this was expressed to me
about what was going on in Wisconsin
when they saw what was happening there
it was just a race to see who could do
worse right well yeah and it's in the
sense that he will motivate his people
no matter what talking his nonsense Joe
Biden is not necessarily gonna do that
well I have to remember in 2018 the
Republicans also had I think a
record-breaking turnout it just so
happens that the Democrats had an even
greater record-breaking turnout anyways
folks in this golden age of television
and podcast I think we all know the
value of a truly compelling narrative q
hunter-killer it's the murder mystery
box that immerses you in an ongoing
experience with every delivery or you
know episode as you could call it you're
gonna dive deeper into what it's like to
being a detective you sift through piles
of documents you have evidence Case
Files until you crack the case who did
e-cigarettes coffee that's like a bottle
you do
those in your drawer yeah well I do with
my own so I don't do that but instead of
staring at a screen you can build an
investigation board with friends or an
online community helping each other
through every challenge plus parts of
the proceeds for every box goes to the
Cold Case Foundation to help fund cold
case investigations we got a bulletin
board in our apartment we put up the the
stuff that comes in the box you get
pictures you get clues you get reports
and it's fun and I got to say the thing
that I really like about it is not on an
iPad not on a computer not I mean you
can go online with the with the thing
but it's not you don't need to you're
just sitting there you're talking right
now for our listeners you can go to
Hunter Killer dot-com slash majority for
20% off your first box
they only accept 200 members per day so
hard to take advantage of software
that's hunt a killer calm slash majority
for 20% off your first box Hunter Killer
calm slash majority alright let's go
into this proposal that Bernie Sanders
unveiled which is I mean both just I
think great policy but it's also going
to be interesting politics in which I
think we will see more of like I said
earlier the debate on September 12th
it's going to be on Thursday December 2
September 12 there's only 10 people in
it only and but there's just gonna be
one debate so I don't have it right in
front of me as to who made it but you
can imagine who did and who didn't
Castro will be there obviously Warren
Sanders and Biden Klobuchar yang you
will have Booker and Harris and better
O'Rourke Buddha judge and Buddha judge
and am I missing one maybe I'm missing
one but no the
I know those other people know Gabbard
and so I think you know to a certain
extent this is we need to start having
more of these smaller debates I think
because it's really the only way I mean
the Democrats need to examine their
candidates and the only way that you can
do that is is is you know 25 people it's
very difficult to do but so here it is
the proposal that Sanders is well here
let's play this
this is his introduction he teased this
I guess this is a couple of days ago and
then more details are starting to
trickle out in another piece of
legislation that we're going to be
offering we will eliminate medical debt
in this country I mean I just stop and
think for a second why should people be
placed in financial duress but what
crime did you commit the other serious
illness all right that is not what this
country should be about we still have
something like 50% of all personal
bankruptcies are either in a large part
or a significant part due to medical
expenses that's just that's just
unbelievable
and you can imagine that the stress of
being in bankruptcy is also not going to
help you get better physically you can
also imagine that having physical
medical ailments are gonna make it that
hard much harder for you to get out of
bankruptcy
so under Sanders plan the government
would negotiate and pay off past new
medical bills that have been reported to
credit agencies it would repeal some
elements and this is an important part
now this is all told they think it's his
gonna end up canceling about eighty 1
billion dollars and
justing past-due medical debt so if
you're if you're current with your
medical debt it will not pay it off now
that dynamic is a little bit tricky
frankly sort of similar dynamic we saw
with HAMP although they didn't that was
the home mortgage adjustment program
there was there was a lot of other
problems with that but for now this is I
think a good first step what we really
need to do is get to a place where you
cannot create debt by having a medical
problem it would also repeal some
elements of the 2005 bankruptcy reform
bill and allow other existing and future
medical debt to be discharged the 2005
bankruptcy reform bill made it difficult
to discharge this debt in other words in
bankruptcy you get protection from your
creditors and in some instances you can
just jettison that debt but the 2005
bankruptcy bill imposed strict strict
means test and eliminated fundamental
consumer protections for Americans I
mean that bankruptcy bill is a disaster
it's caused so much harm and so many
people it is also frankly another
function of inequality in this country
Donald Trump perfect example of somebody
who used bankruptcy laws multiple times
there's no means-testing when you go to
bankruptcy as a corporation and of
course you're at arm's length anyways
from your own assets only people unable
to pay their medical debt would be
granted relief those keeping up with
their payments would have to continue to
pay the proposal would also create a new
legal framework to ensure that no credit
scores are negatively effected upon
unpaid medical bills so that's a big
part of this as well I mean that's
pretty exciting stuff more stuff will
come out but eighty 1 billion dollars to
get rid of
the medical debt of people who are in
financial distress were you aware that
our defense budget went up by a hundred
billion last year yeah that materially
affect you so the idea that we couldn't
afford to do this is just ridiculous we
could do this without batting an eye it
wasn't reported no one would know one
would know except for all of those
millions of people who are suffering
under medical debt I mean it's it's a
no-brainer and it's going to be
interesting because Joe Biden was one of
the main proponents of that 2005
bankruptcy bill and just to give you a
sense of what's going on with the
Washington Post this is sort of like a
sidebar I don't know it's a sidebar I
think they're they're incredible
dishonesty this cycle here there's
something very bizarre with its
ideological but it's also a bizarre
personal hatred of Bernie Sanders I mean
look I don't know what motivates it but
it's real the dynamic is real and you
know this came up in the context of
apparently you know like I think we
mentioned this last week that near
tendineae you know accused me of daxing
somebody because i retweeted a clip from
an unnamed LinkedIn account from of a an
ominous an anonymous tweeter who was
featured on MSNBC News making the case
that Bernie Sanders in some way was you
know engaging in conspiracy theory about
about the Washington Post and so all
weird stuff but here is so the
Washington posted a fact check
on Bernie Sanders claim that 500,000
Americans are bankrupted by medical
bills each year and it gave him three
Pinocchio level liar I guess out of four
for saying this
Sanders based his statement on research
this is actually written by one of the
researchers that we in three colleagues
published in the American Journal of
Public Health this guy named Warren
gunnels I'm sorry no it's I'm sorry
right
okay I'm sorry and here's the author of
the study in our 2019 research 37% of
bankrupts very much agreed that medical
bills were an important factor while
another 21.5% somewhat agreed many
others cited lost wages due to illness
overall two-thirds cited illness related
bills incomes loss or both that's
equivalent to five hundred and thirty
thousand medical bankruptcies annual
annually but even the five hundred and
thirty thousand figures and under
estimate of the number of people
affected by medical bankruptcies most
bankruptcies involve more than one
person an average about 2.7 people often
including a spouse partner and child
that means that the 750,000 bankruptcies
last year involved more than two million
people somehow the Washington Post came
up with three Pinocchio's according to
this researcher the the claim that the
post relied on press on an eco
econometric study that found only a
modest uptick in bankruptcy filings
among persons hospitalized in California
between 2003 and 2007 but that study of
are made to under count medical
bankruptcies and a I wonder yeah as we
and Elizabeth Warren noted in our
response to it
New England Journal of Medicine it
excluded most people who were frequently
hospitalized a group that said high risk
of medical bankruptcy and assumed that
anyone not hospitalized could not suffer
medical bankruptcy even though people
who aren't hospitalized in the course of
a year account for four-fifths of out of
all pocket medical bills that no one is
bankrupt by bills for child's or
partner's care and that potentially
bankrupting illnesses never start before
the moment of hospitalization assumption
contradicted by the study's own data so
yeah this is by David Himelstein Steffi
wood handler distinguished professors of
public health at the City University of
New York so there's something very
strange going on at the Washington Post
and I don't know what accounts for it
but it's real well I mean there was the
one that several weeks ago with the
multiple jobs people having to work
multiple jobs to earn a living where
essentially the guy was like well it is
literally millions of people that's not
really that many I mean you know I think
they're showing the ball and a lot of
things include I mean and then you look
at the Nate Silver phenomenon where you
know his whole brand is built on being
supposedly an objective arbiter of
numbers and he's just fixated on Sanders
on Twitter it's very strange
I mean never trust people who say
they're not ideological period is
definitely something that I would pretty
strongly assert and I think that we're
gonna need to upgrade fact-checking
fact-checking is yeah it's gonna need to
look very different thing because these
people are useless at best well let's
let's actually do we have that clip of
Jordan Peterson calling for a debate
this is a good example of something to
not fact-check right we'll get to that
in a moment but here you have millions
of Americans are forced to work two or
three jobs just as five said Bernie
Sanders the Bureau of Labor Statistics
shows that nearly 8 million people hold
more than one job but most of those
extra jobs are part-time not full-time
it's like if you work how could you work
two full times you have full-time jobs
that's the metric in the millions that's
in in quotation of people amount to just
5%
Americans with jobs so that means that
95 percent of workers are not working
two or three jobs to survive making this
a misleading statement and the statement
again read the statement millions of
Americans are forced to work two or
three but not tens of millions like he
didn't say right or a majority of
Americans or most Americans I love it's
like there's all these different ways
you could shift it for it to not work
but well there's give you the one exact
framing where it's like yep five
millions would be a formulation of
millions and yeah there you go
there's been Democrats that have been a
little bit you know cavalier with the
way they cite that and this make it seem
like maybe twenty five percent of people
or something right but breeze a million
well it's also great to you that it's
like yeah that's just five million
people that have to like drive in uber
twenty hours a week in addition to
working a full-time job in order to
survive there's look this is important
to talk about because we're talking
about you know today we're talking about
the Washington Post fact-checking Bernie
Sanders in a just a bizarre way we're
talking about your Joe Biden going out
there and telling a you know semi
fabricated story even saying that the
details not important important genuine
rage yeah he inhabited that role well
yes it was like it was dead like Jill
didn't bring up jello there are times
where something can be completely fake
but also completely right and apparently
someone created an online jordan
Peterson text-to-speech text-to-speech
program it's been taken down but you
know in a violation of free speech I was
no kidding satires my foundation
listener Josh apparently created one and
let's hear it the afternoon Dave Stephen
others in the I do
stop being cowards and debate Sam Center
it's not actually that hard
there you go and all that is absolutely
true but that's also totally false I
want to make that absolutely clear
Jordan Peterson not right enough to make
that comment he would be the type of guy
that would call you a seder ya know
that's how he would pronounce it though
definitely let's play it one more time
just because it sounds so good the
afternoon
Dave Stephen others in the I do stop
being cowards and debate Sam sitter
it's not actually that hard so there it
is
Jordan Peterson's voice coming to my
support not not him Willie but this
little you know the the other part about
this that's not funny there's gonna be a
big problem no I mean we've been talking
about this for a while remember we we
hit we saw that test of Adobe had come
up with something like that where you
can just text it and write it out and it
creates stuff like this is that what
this was yeah that's what this is Texas
speech compiled using his lectures and
stuff like wow I mean that's that's
scary what's really scary is it's a sort
of singularity because they say the
singularity is when artificial
intelligence gets smarter than man and
now we have a text-to-speech software
that's telling more truth than the
actual IDW right that's that's true I
mean in a way and not only are they
telling more truth than the IDW in a way
they are even more dark webby through
the dark web dark web yeah because
they're not even allowed to be online
the the voice the text is speech of
machines but this is gonna be a big
problem because I mean just for example
if this existed with Donald Trump prior
to the 2015 election like that what he
said on that bus could have been a lot
worse right he comes off the bus and
with a little bit of tinkering that's
gonna sound seamless and you're going to
hear you're going to hear secret audio
from a speech that
somebody gave in a room of fundraisers
and one of the things that an
intentional disinfo will be put out as
well one of the things that I think is
becoming very clear with this era and
Donald Trump is that there are two at
the least to very substantial narratives
of reality within our politics that are
running parallel with each other you
know that that woman who was at that
Justin Amash town hall in Michigan who
said like I I thought the mall report
completely vindicated exonerated Donald
I had no idea about this stuff I'd never
heard it and I'm you know very very a
I'm a high information voter and um well
I mean she didn't say accurate
information she was seeing Justin Amash
live yeah I mean no that's a really good
distinction though III think that you
know ha there's gonna be tons of people
that are high information there was an
old Annenberg study and its really old
at this point I think I looked at it in
college so probably like ten years ago
or something but especially people that
were at the time I think was probably
fox or Limbaugh or something they could
identify things more than the average
voter like they would be more likely
than not to know who liked the Senate
majority leader was or whatever factoids
but they were terrible in terms of
organizing information but they were
quote-unquote high information voters
but they were wrong on the merits of a
lot of things so those are not
definitely definitely not the same thing
right
and and but I don't even want to get
into like the what constitutes a high
information voter but that the idea that
there are two different realities that
can you coexist and that can have the
same I mean it used to be that Fox
needed to that the way that the media
would flow would be from the Drudge
Report into Fox and then out to like ABC
News and that would be the whole game
but now they don't need these stories to
migrate into the so-called mainstream or
Lane
Stream media has John McCain's running
mate would say she coined that I I don't
know if she coined it but she gave it
popularity well she gave it popularity
and now they don't need the lamestream
media mm-hmm there's a whole nother and
I imagine this is going to get bigger
but the you know this we're gonna see
more stratification within media but
they're gonna be able to concentrate
they stay on message a lot more than the
rest of the media does because that's
not what they perceive their job to be
and you can put out something fake and
it can do its job and it doesn't have to
last long you drop this thing in October
15th you know if I had a George W Bush I
can't believe they don't realize how opt
out of National Guard and shut up I was
wasted and I dropped that you know
October 15th 2004 maybe he's not
president oh no I don't take are all row
fits debunked the next day right not a
good move not smart I got right effed
all right look we're gonna take a break
ahead into the fun half folks you can
join us by becoming a member
simply go to join the majority report
com pennies a day you can become a
member of this program and support what
we do here every day even on vacation
gave you new programming every single
day and for those members had the deep
deep archive Brendon's pics good stuff
Brendon says sort of threw that off I
don't know you talked to Hannity what's
that
yeah Hannity came in that was the first
thing I heard about when I came here
that which is why I picked it my
interviews it was not always the first
Samms interviewed second
he tells you about his experience it was
great
well Brendan came in is like I had to
mute you at my last job I had to mute
your finding you on YouTube because I
like Brendan him in an alpha do
rightfully he put you in check
Hannity wanted Janine on his program
because it was the biggest ratings get
at the time and so we invited Hannity on
our show and he showed up at our studios
and you know Janine and I were just not
skilled enough at that point to know
what to do frankly but he actually
barged into the studio he was waiting he
came in early tried you know it me like
you could it was all you could see the
bones of what he was doing he was trying
to take over the the whole room and and
and Janine at that time thought like you
can convince these people if she thought
that she could convince Hannity cuz he
would take her out to lunch you know and
he thought that and at the time I
decided that I had heard that Hannity
was a was melanistic like that he
thought we were living in end times and
I kept asking him if he thought we were
living at end times I haven't listened
to this and I haven't listened to it in
15 years did you listen to the whole
thing Brendon did you listen to her I
listened to most of it I asked him like
three times right and he was getting mad
and Janine we were not you know this was
so early and we was not the same
adjustments we were we were not on the
same page with what what to do in this
situation and so she was like letting
the air out of the tire and I and I kept
going at him and he was you can't see it
but he was mad I like at the end that
you said he stormed off I don't remember
wonder why he's like I did and he's like
I didn't start off I'm just still
sitting here but you said he did oh I
did
do you make the analog deep fake
oh my stormed off yeah you got to say
that after he leaves though people lost
but yeah I was messing with him a little
bit but if you remember you can go and
check that out you can just to sign up
and you'll have access via the app to
all of the archives and you'll be able
to go dig into it so orden or just on
your computer anyways join the majority
report com also just coffee dot co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off
check out the morning quickie we do it
every morning we're getting it out
earlier and earlier it's available just
gives you the top stories of the day
that you should keep an eye out for so
you know so you know also hunt a killer
it's the murder mystery box that
immerses you in an ongoing experience
with every delivery or episode you're
gonna dive deeper into what it's like to
be a detective sifting through piles
documents evidence and Case Files until
you crack the case right now just for
our listeners you can go to Hunter
Killer comm slash majority get 20% off
your first box
they only accept 200 members a day so
hurry you take advantage of this offer
and now that's hunt a killer calm slash
majority for 20% off your first box hunt
a killer calm slash majority Michael yes
excited to be back tonight crystal ball
will be joining us why the professional
class is lining up behind Elizabeth
Warren what that says about her
candidacy tzo ball Thorpe joins us we're
talking about the water crisis in Newark
jay-z and the NFL and an illicit history
of the RSS the BJP and how that leads to
Kashmir today the Indian dimension of
the global authoritarian rise and then
all the other brags at or Aguayo bunch
of things we have to catch up on for
patrons you can check out our Chicago
Show which was great you can listen to
that we had a really fun time and we
will be announcing our neck
a date for our next live show tonight
patreon.com slash t MBS michael brooks
show on youtube where we're about to
cross our first 73,000 subscribers so
thanks jamie is out but check out the
intifada at patreon.com slash the
intifada
matt yeah for literary hangover this
friday we're doing part two of james
fenimore cooper's the pioneers which is
probably as best novel seeing the fun
half folks six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty see you in the
[Music]
what does this alpha males are back and
the alpha males are back back just
males are back back back back and the
alpha males are back back back just want
to degrade the white man alpha males
males
almost as one
and the alpha males are back back
I am a total cut can we bring back DJ
theater
yeah or a couple of you put them in
rotation these you dance well the
problem with those is they're like 45
seconds long so I don't know if they're
enough with a break that's
I do not have more concerns and the
alpha males are like
almost says watch watch watch watch
[Music]
on the back
on the back
back
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
because
black males
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadis
keeping it 100
for the bigger game plan it's my
birthday
at the birthday to meet you boy I have a
thought expand it to foil and the alpha
males of black black alpha males
companies to pay the price request way
around here I am a total
we are back the fun half ladies and
gentlemen let's go right to the phones
calling from a to10 area code who's this
where you come from did I get did I lose
me on there hold on what is going on
with this hello
let's try it again call from a two one
zero area code who's this good afternoon
Sam this John from San Antonio John from
San Antonio
how was your vacation John that was good
was good I hope you and everybody at the
majority report enjoyed your vacation
well thank you good to have you back
it's nice to have you yeah I enjoyed all
right I enjoyed your interviews last
week good choice by Brendan on the
members feeds it aired on the Monday the
26th of August he played a interview
with Rick Hertzberg from The New Yorker
the night that Barack Obama was exposed
to the national audience during the
Democratic convention on July 27th 2004
it's a good reminder of how Democrats
played defense on every issue and while
some you know good policies were
implemented during the Obama tenure it
wasn't until Bernie captured the
imagination of the American public to
the possibilities of the more equal
economic system
people are now clamoring for real change
so with that in mind I want to talk
about Bernie's supporters and black
lives matters activist and writer Shaun
King flipped the Senate political action
group so mr. King has endorsed seven
mostly progressive candidates in Georgia
Ted Terry is a 36 year old mayor of
Clarkston Georgia the most ethnically
diverse square mile in America he's
passed the decriminalization of medical
marijuana possession $15 an hour minimum
wage outlaw lgbtq a discrimination
pushing for a hundred percent clean
energy future and the make Election Day
holiday so his biggest challenge comes
from former mayor of Columbus Theresa
Tomlinson so the odds are that the
Democrats could win the Senate in 2020
also increased during your vacation when
Republican Georgia senator Johnny
Isakson decided to retire at the end of
this year vote rigging governor Brian
Kemp will appoint a placeholder for a
year until the election in November of
next year and Georgia as a jungle
primary for this special election so if
no one receives 50% of the vote the top
two finishers will face off on January
5th of 2021
so in Colorado progressive Andrew
Romanov was the leading contender before
the awful John Hickenlooper got into the
rice despite saying four you know saying
many times he wouldn't so Romanoff who
backs medicare-for-all in the green New
Deal his is talked you know it's said
that accused the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee the same tactic that
Cheri Bustos is using to protect
incumbents in the house which is like
blackmailing political organizations by
saying if they work with with Romanoff
they can't do business with other DSCC
candidates yeah this is this is really
stunning and I think this probably has
more this is more problematic than even
the the house won I mean because I would
imagine that people who are used to
working on a statewide campaign you just
as not as many of those people and for
Chuck Schumer this is another Chuck
Schumer special Chuck Schumer stepping
in and and you know it's not clear to me
that Hickenlooper is the slam-dunk that
everybody thinks he is as opposed to
Romanoff and it is to short-circuit this
primary process in this way is it's
pretty stunning I I just I you know I
Chuck Schumer's an idiot I don't know
what else to say he's in
idiot and/or he just simply he just
simply you know is afraid of having a a
caucus that might be slightly to the
left of him in the Senate that's the
only thing I can think of well I see
this is a party problem I mean they're I
mean they seem so terrified and you know
that's not how you build unity among the
party I mean the unit you can tell that
by saying you know let's have them let's
you know discuss these issues and then
we'll see who has we'll see who wins
yeah and you know you're just you're
just making you know people hate the
party more who are already prone to
think that way anyway and so you're
right completely right so yeah you know
and in Texas is Christina since on
Ramirez who's a co-founder and executive
director of the workers defense project
has entered the race and she has an
impressive record as an organizer but I
don't see your supporting
medicare-for-all and I'm not I'm not
still sure about her I'd still like
Veronica Escobar who is you know seen
your profile rise for outspoken support
for the immigrant communities
mistreatment I'd like to see her get
into the race yeah I just got there just
really quick Veronica Escobar and this
is important for me she signed a very
important Brazil letter which I
certainly took notice of in addition to
the really important moves on
immigration that John's talking about so
that shoots the top for me too
all right now I didn't know that that's
great so yet a couple of other
candidates
Maggie Oliver and New Mexico James
McLaren Tennessee
Jamie Harrison in South Carolina and
wilmut Collins in Montana so you know
check check these people out you know
check out their websites I think they
had some pretty good issues so it's most
real good progressives and then there's
so many great progressive candidates
running for the House it's hard to keep
up with them all and so it's good to see
you know that you're interviewing people
on Ring of Fire Michaels interviewing
people and of course TYT is always in
viewing people so it is it's great to
see you know there's going to be more
and more people winning it's just a
matter of time before this movement just
keeps building so one thing about the
the Biden thing you might have you ever
seen that ad that that healthcare added
he put on it out on the 27th no so
that's a really awful ad I mean you
gotta you know to check into that and
that could be essentially John if I'm
correct I was I was not following as
closely as I could have been during the
vacation but my understanding is
essentially the upshot of that ad is
making a connection between his family
tragedy with his son and then as a sort
of bank shot as to why we shouldn't go
for Medicare for all is that right yeah
yeah that's essentially IDIA mean he
doesn't directly say that he just says
we've got to build on what we did and
every American deserves health care well
I mean you know and he also he talked
about his family tragedy the first
family tragedy when you know his first
wife and yet some of the kids died in
the 70s so he throws that in also so you
know he's talking about you know a
family tragedy and then he's like making
this didn't disingenuous thing about how
you know how his health care plan is is
the best plan and it's everybody knows
who's who's actually you know looked
into this this is far you know inferior
plan it's just awful
so so it's something so I don't know if
you want to discuss anything else about
about that what I've talked about
similar no I mean I think it's a good
roundup but this Romanov thing has
really got me bothered because you know
like in a place like a collar like you
look in Texas I am you know to get
anybody better than Joe Manchin in Texas
let's say okay you know Texas it's we
got a road to go there's a big gulf
there but in places like Colorado where
the
it's not clear to me that Hickenlooper
has a better chance than Romanoff or
that Romanoff doesn't have a chance you
know I mean like that is where that type
of stuff where the Democratic Party is
actually throwing its energy behind is
is like actually involved in like a
rearguard type of move they take the leg
is a governor on a pretty progressive
platform and Romanoff was a state leader
he's got a very good chance right right
and and so you know it's one thing for
the you know the Democratic Party to
come and say like okay look it's quite
clear that this you know this is a red
state we're gonna go back somebody I
mean like I don't know if I am excited
about it but that just seems to me to be
like far less egregious than in
something like this situation where they
are you know trying to create a firewall
around a guy less because of his
electability and more it appears to me
just because he's going to be easier for
Chuck Schumer to deal with in the Senate
he's used to going to to you know
moderate the Senate as if we need more
of that moderation in the Senate it's
just I
it's enraging to me but I appreciate the
call John and you know I thank them that
angry and I think I I do think I mean a
Schumer has been willing to support
pretty progressive people a time and and
he's I'm sure he does have this you know
the brain-dead belief about the
electorate but you know I he's clearly a
corporatist and I think he does feel
much more comfortable with corporate
oriented right-wing Democrats ya don't
like I don't even think it's I think
it's just more about like control well
okay so we can make a distinction with
we'll play ball so maybe somebody is
more liberal or more conservative or
whatever but at the end of the day he's
not gonna disrupt what he actually wants
to run the Senate like exactly that
tends to quarrel and with an ideology
but I agree it could be a liberal well
right and and not only is it that the
run the Senate the way that it's a
threat to him he
that had someone to even to the right of
him is not going to threaten to dump him
in the way that someone to the left of
him would right because you've got at
this point you've got like a shots or
murkly that really why shouldn't they
get a gang together I'm yeah new leader
yeah I mean I I don't that doesn't
appear that anybody wants that but I
don't know it's he's horrible and he as
a legislator is horrible I mean just
look at Wall Street Facebook my god here
is uh let's just play this one last
Donald Trump thing get it out of the way
so there won't feel sick here's Donald
Trump he well there's two different
things here I guess - is this the yeah
this is just this is Colombia one of the
what are they what is this one of the
longest-running sort of like
insurgencies in goes back to think
central seventies yeah in Latin America
yes you would think that when you become
president you get briefed on some of
these sort of like long-standing things
well also there was a peace deal which
has been undermined by a far-right
government in Colombia so not only is
this long-standing it's actually a
breakthrough that was pulled back on and
Colombia's already been one of the most
violent countries in the region for a
decade there's a lot to know making some
be a great so know about a Trump they're
definitely making club your critic right
yet Trump was asked about FARC which is
the I guess in Spanish it's a different
but it's the Revolutionary Army of the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia
I'm forces of Colombia and their
nickname is FARC and started a network
maybe they see for I thought it was the
seventies of 1964 and so Donald Trump is
asked about it and and this is why that
he only does this in front of it
planes and in front of helicopters is
because they don't want you to hear the
question is one a part of it and they
want to be able to pretend that he
didn't hear the question and if he gets
called on this none of his supporters
care none of his supporters care at all
about this but it is again this is just
historians are gonna look back at this
era and we'll see you know what happens
with places like Kashmir we'll see what
happens with places like Hong Kong we'll
see what happens throughout Central
America South America frankly we'll look
at the Congo I mean these are all places
that the the ignorance the incompetence
the ideological the ideology of the
Trump administration will see this in
Israel and Palestine their absence their
failures their incompetence which are
not like you know can't we history will
be able to assess but this is one of the
things that historians will look back on
and say like for instance here's an
example you know I can imagine the
seminar course right in 20 or 30 years
when when all the implications of like
having no one at the steering wheel of
US foreign policy is in no go here is
here's one example of those people who
make the argument that Trump was just
stupid
Columbia usual
the country we have a great relationship
and they're not doing badly they have a
problem because they've been as well a
lot of people are pouring in
but Columbia we've had a great
relationship with Philip
there you go
I mean it remains to be seen you know
III lump in that you know like like a
cashmere and you know the developments
in Syria maybe in the israel-palestinian
situation and Hong Kong and Central and
South America I mean and in Congo there
had been I think there's renewed
fighting there after the Obama
administration Russ Feingold they
basically negotiated peace there in some
instances for worse in some instances
for better but the the complete sort of
just like ghosting of the United States
in the context of of world conflicts is
I don't know I guess we'll find out if
that's what that means I mean here is a
Donald Trump being asked about on the
80th anniversary I guess of of the
invasion of Poland
he didn't go because he remember he had
to stay at home to watch the progress of
Dorion from the TV apparently better
than I've had internet connection so I
can fight with Debra Messing on Air
Force One right I need to stay I got her
Kent Darian in 4k right meanwhile he's
he did like 36 holes of golf but he
didn't go to Poland that's a tough day
80 year anniversary of the invasion of
Poland the the invasion of Poland not by
like you know the Beatles but by the
Beatles came and Elvis and everybody had
shaggy haircuts I by the add did it like
German military and what they would do
is they would shoot people people will
get shot and they would shoot tanks like
it it was extremely back then it was
extremely violent to have your country
invaded by an invading force here is
Trump what's your response on the 80th
anniversary of this invasion where
Poland was invaded I do have a great
message for Poland that we have Mike
Pence our vice president is just about
landing right now and he is representing
me I look forward to being there soon
but I just want to congratulate Poland
it's a great country with great people
we also have many Polish people in our
country it could be 8 million
we love our polish friends and I will be
there soon
a lot of people make light bulb jokes I
won't I want to congratulate
congratulate on your 80th anniversary of
being invaded in fact many of your
population probably emigrated to this
country in part because it was so
destroyed in that invasion and
occupation huh sir congratulations on
having 8 million of you over here -
that's right that's your numbers a
little bit help me really great really
great we can knock those numbers down
though in our phase 2 former immigrant
calling that we're going to do there's
so many Polacks that everywhere and I
would tremendous message graduations and
graduations
you can't change a light bulb but you
can get invaded dodge it's just a little
R&R lesser relaxation but I look there's
a big hurricane and that Debra
Messing keeps tweeting at me I'm sorry
go to the phones alive holes with
invasion is too much historical
information come from a 602 area code
who's this where he come from yeah this
is Kyle from Phoenix Kyle from Phoenix
what's on your mind hey I just had two
things I'm talking about the first one
was I'm 100% behind you and I think that
Bernie Sanders getting up wearing this
thing I also think that the corporate
class and the Democrats in the media I
don't think they fully realized
how strong his socialist populist wave
is I was listen to some Richard Wolffe
and he said the last time if this big
was come back in the twenty and after
FDR died the you know billionaires
corporate class they pushed hard
obviously for the last sixteen seventy
years to try and get rid of all of those
Oh populist movements that were made
what do you think because I don't think
they've realized how big this move is
yet once they do realize that this isn't
going away what do you think their next
move is going to be so obviously they
haven't realized it yet when they do
realize how big it is how hard do you
think they're gonna push how do you
think they're gonna push because that's
kind of got me up a little worried to be
honest what are you worried of well I
just think that when when the people who
are in power right now
realize how big this wave is that like I
said the last time it was this big we
got you know Medicare unemployment you
know all the stuff if they are pushed in
the New Deal I don't think they realize
it's that big again and I do
I wanted a percent think it is that big
I don't think one day you realize it I
think is going to be a huge push to try
and I don't know maybe smear Bernie
Sanders even harder than the RDR which
is kind of hard to do or you know
whatever their tactics are going to be
but I think when they realize how big
this populist movement is that they're
gonna put it into overdrive I don't
think they're going to make that I don't
think that realization is gonna come for
a while and I don't think frankly I I
think to the extent that I mean if I had
to just speculate I I don't I don't I
don't think that they're going to have
that realization I mean I think that
they're you know my guess would be and
you know I can think of a lot worse
things happening but my guess would be
that if they thought that Bernie Sanders
was going
to win they would support Elizabeth
Warren that would be the smart thing to
do at that point even after he went to
the primary if you want well I don't
think there's gonna be I don't think
that there's gonna be a winner of this
primary season early I don't think that
we're gonna have a sense like in March
let's say I mean I can tell you that
professional you know political people
even people who were very very
sympathetic to Bernie Sanders felt that
in February of 2016 that like you're not
gonna win this yeah but I don't think
that we're gonna have a similar
situation I think it's going to be I
think people are not going i people may
have opinions in February of 2016 but I
think they're going to be divergent and
so I think really it's going to be a
question at the you know going into the
convention I think it's conceivable I
mean you know everybody every year
people say that but I don't I don't
think there's gonna be something like
well I don't know III you know I think
there I think that people are gonna
probably if they're smart they'll say
vote for Elizabeth Warren if they want
like Joe Biden getting elected is not
going to slow the roll of any move to
the left I think this is a generational
thing I just think that this is this is
coming the question is is like how much
can you co I agree I would just say
maybe outside of a presidential well I
will say I think it does underline how
important and distinct Sanders is that
he really is the ultimate threat to
these people and that's a very strong
argument for him but more broadly I and
I want to be really careful about this
because I don't mean this any any kind
of conscious and conspiratorial sense
but I do think that if you look at this
sort of some of the of the patterns
globally and the United States has more
circuit breakers than other countries
but if you even look at state laws
against protesting you look at a lot of
moves to restrict the the things that
the state of Dakota was doing against
the water protectors like
rise of private security firms and
things like that I think that in a
broader sense when people realize that
this might be a changing political
dynamic you really gonna have to
everybody should reread democracy in
Chains and look at some of the kind of
trends towards formally inhibiting
democracy even if it's not as you know
overt as some type of authoritarian
takeover I think that's what people
really need to be looking to and it does
and of course there's gonna be a huge
amount of lies and smears about Bernie
that's gonna be ongoing but I think the
bigger structural question is when all
of a sudden more people want to protest
and they look at the laws in the books
or like wait a second I can't really
protest anymore I mean that stuff's been
happy yeah yours and that's what I would
look at appreciate the call so you're
saying more on like the idea of after
okay talking now our second point real
quick no that's okay it's just right I'm
in Phoenix Arizona and we all know that
one of the Koch brothers just died
woohoo and they're still out there
pushing a prop top 105 and 106 right now
because we just got a light rail pass
and we're building it's doing really
well they're trying to make it illegal
here for us to build more light rails I
heard they're doing it all over the
country so I just wanted to put it out
there vote no on Prop 105 vote no on
Prop 106 don't believe any of those lies
that they say on the ads on their
horrible for the city I appreciate the
call okay
I was just in Austin Texas this weekend
and there's no real like infrastructure
for public transportation out there and
I was talking to people about it it's
very hard to get done and every time you
drive around a city like that on a
Saturday night there's a car wreck on a
highway like it's it's a public safety
issue it's a public health issue war on
cars baby cars are not good here is
Elizabeth Warren and she's playing this
you know very smartly as well she
realizes that she is on one end to the
ledger from Joe Biden and wants to make
sure that yeah
she that she does not alienate Bernie
Sanders supporters and he or she is
making that argument that to the extent
that there's any daylight between our
positions I don't feel we need to talk
about it at some point are you going to
bag the non-aggression pact and just
start drawing more distinctions friends
for many many years long before I ever
got in politics and I don't see any
reason that that should change but don't
you do you want to make it easier for
voters who are wondering how to make a
decision but I get out every day and try
to meet as many voters as I can and talk
about why ami in this race to talk about
my vision to talk about what's broken to
talk about my plans to fix it and to
talk about how I'm building a grassroots
movement to get it done I think what's
your positive message what is it you
want to do as president of the United
States and I'm trying to make that clear
every single day people know why I'm in
this fight and what I'll be fighting
soon you know III think if you were to
ask Bernie Sanders the exact same
question I think you would get almost
the verbatim the same answer did
sometime over the break you have
essentially that yeah I mean that is you
know that is basically how Bernie has
you know approached most of his
campaigns and I think you know Warren I
mean I think they are genuinely friends
and I think they I think they they have
a respect for each other on policy
grounds and it does seem like they're in
a sort of formation on this primary deal
well I think they know that it the the
the key is to get Joe Biden out and then
you know well in that look at if you
watch any survivor episode what's
happening here is pretty pretty pretty
clear they should have I mean yeah I
mean and I also think like there's
nothing wrong with people who support
both of them having clear you know
clearly articulating the disagreements
there yeah and I think you know because
even even I think the pattern of now
sort of echoing the move
an argument is very noticeable to me and
I will articulate that but it doesn't
mean that you know at the end of the day
obviously hopefully there will be some
type of formalized alliance between them
I'm just clear who I want to be at the
you know on the top of that Alliance and
there's nothing wrong with that yeah I
mean I I let me put it this way too I
would say there's nothing that Bernie is
doing in terms of building a movement
that I don't think I mean that movement
let me put it this way the the movement
that he's building under a President
Biden will serve a very different
function than it would under a President
Warren serving in totally different
function under President Sanders as well
yes but I would imagine the the dynamic
between that movement and Sanders and
the dynamic between Warren and that
movement would not not be nearly as
different as it would be under Biden I
think there would be a lot more
coordination frankly because I think
there's a lot of people personnel
involved in both those campaigns who are
far more communicative with each other
than they are with the Biden people and
I don't think that would change in the
context of an administration but as we
said on September 12th at 8 p.m. on ABC
News and Univision and the majority
report probably on twitch twitch we will
have Amy Klobuchar Cory Booker Peabody
Judge Bernie Sanders Joe Biden Elizabeth
Warren Kamala Harris Andrew yang better
o'rourke Julian Castro will be on the
debate stage absent from that stage will
be Tulsi Gabbard among 11 other people
or ten other people still in the race
god bless we don't have John Delaney to
kick around anymore
so glad that dudes not there and there
have been people who have been claiming
that the system is rigged against Tulsi
Gabbard but they were willing to take
out all those other moderates I guess to
keep her off the stage was the idea or
you know it's worth getting rid of
Bullock it's worth getting rid of Tom
Styer it's worth getting rid of John
Delaney it's worth getting rid of who
else is Seth Moulton I think he dropped
out slaw well the whole the it's worth
getting rid of all those people if we
can get rid of gab right now of course
they made these rules I think a lot of
people assumed that she would make it
frankly I certainly was one who thought
that she would she has no life but but
she is not dropping out and good I think
that's fine there's a couple of points
that she makes that I think are decent
to be made I hope she doesn't speak up
too much about Kashmir but because I'm
not sure I would like what she would say
but here's Tulsi Gabbard laughing the
other day when I started hearing from a
lot of people in in the media when they
said okay you didn't make the third
debate are you quitting
[Applause]
I had been listening to what I've been
saying about what this movement is about
and why I'm running for president and
what is at stake they would understand
why we are here and why we will never
quit that's good I mean I I think I
would much rather her staying in the
race than John Delaney I mean no kidding
and frankly like I'm all for fewer
debates with fewer people but I'm for me
Gordon Amy Amy quell fewer and fewer sir
but Amy Klobuchar and not Tulsi Gabbard
Kimmy a break well it's just a high
numbers it's I mean I know but I were to
go down that rabbit hole there's a whole
dispute about which numbers you're
looking at and I'm I'll just say it's
like you with brexit although I will say
brexit is far more important than this I
don't know and I don't know they just
they have this process they picked a
bunch of poles that were gonna be poles
that they used to to assess and they
were gonna look at donation numbers and
how is Clovis shot I mean clove assures
that 1%
well that's a different criteria they
didn't say that no no I'm saying that's
what I think explains her poll numbers
but she's at 1% in the polls I'm saying
there's polls she her polling averages
literally at 1% what I don't like so the
soda entirely locked down that map was
purple for certain polls it was certain
polls so it's not just the poll number
if they said the these are polls that
are not frankly I would preferred eight
people so that you would lose Klobuchar
and frankly you would probably lose
Castro it looks like in terms of no you
yeah you wouldn't you you wouldn't lose
yang frankly you know yang has gotten
himself right to the mid-tier I mean
that's he's done that yeah but I just
you know to me it's like if we're having
Castro and Clovis are as a qualitative
assessment have cold Tulsi get well
that's the whole point it's not a
qualitative well its quantitative right
which is you know yes I guess they'd be
big it's I mean it's its quantitative in
the sense that the Washington Post
fact checkers are quantitative I mean no
it's not I don't know about that look I
know more you more trust in it than I do
I'm not sure
trust it was announced we knew this six
month six weekend if you go into this
rabbit hole there's a reason some people
are whining about it I don't care I know
I know there's a reason why people are
whining about it well they say there's
different polls there's different but
this was all pre - tired before hands
but they're still you they're still
deciding there's still at something with
somebody deciding what is and isn't
gonna make it through of course
right everybody but the rules are set
six to eight weeks ago yeah I guess what
those people are way more threatened by
Bernice I know this is a court photo
Japan's like those people that are
fixing all this allegedly are way more
threatened by Bernie Sanders he's still
beaten it so you know yeah I mean that's
the but this is this is what I think is
problematic it's one thing because this
is we're getting into this sort of the
rigged thing again which was incredibly
destructive but also incredibly
inaccurate six weeks ago they say if you
score above a certain threshold in these
whatever 12 polls or three of these
twelve polls because we're just we're
choosing which polls were gonna go by
because you can't start your own polling
outfit and say look I got I got six
percent so they've got to decide which
polls it is that where they're going to
say are legit everybody nobody knows six
to eight weeks ago where people were in
these polls anyways
and you've got a hit it was a hundred
thirty thousand donors right mean
basically those are Gabbard and Mary Ann
hit the donor requirements but they
didn't hit the polling requirements for
the polls they used I think you could
argue that like look you should allow
twelve people on stage or you should
allow eight people on stage but that's
just as arbitrary to basically what you
can see from this whole exchange is that
Sam gets even more money from the DNC
them yeah well it's also the sort of
thing like if you have them Sandra
attack if your movement relies on the
rules being in your face
Varane crisis you gave your life your
whole argument rests on how come the you
know how come the ref didn't call to
play that way I mean yeah here's will
say especially to Brazil world I do find
the rhetoric I have no problem
complaining about things and talking
about bias but the rhetoric of like
rigging and Stalin in a Brazil world
guys you know also incredibly
disempowering because there is no
solution to this this is this is you
start getting into Alex Jones territory
where like the Bilderberger group is
controlling everything so it doesn't
matter what we do and that might be if
anybody out there thinks that the
democratic party was more interested in
getting rid of Tulsi Gabbard from that
stage versus keeping john delaney okay
because if anything if there's any
impetus they want to protect joe biden
and john Delaney's the only one who is
gonna be a bit iffy and this is really
gonna piss still see people off not only
did they want to protect joe biden and
actually Tulsi was protecting show of ID
if we watched I mean it I mean so like
it's just just a great job on comma
though this is that yeah this stuff is
I'm happy she's not dropping out of the
race like I said I would rather seen
eight people in the debate than ten I
for all I care I don't have to hear
anything that Amy Klobuchar says for as
long as I live I mean I you know it's
all right down the middle and boring
stuff and it's not moving the ball
forward only interesting I miss her
staff abuse we all know this but but the
the talk of rigging and this and that is
just is grifters it's grifters honestly
god damn e well it's just I because that
stuff I thought well was also just sort
of it was lame last time it's even lamer
this time
ah let's go to the phones it's tough to
control this thing calling from a 406
area code who's this where you come from
hey Sam this was Brennan from Montana
Brandon what's on your mind
uh well first I just wanted to give a
big thanks to Matt and Michael they
recommended an audio book for me a month
or two back it was a Bhaskar some para
socialist manifesto really really good
book I recommend Guide to everybody also
I kind of just really wanted to touch on
something that funnily enough Jean from
San Antonio mentioned that was a Wilmot
Collins from Montana I don't know if you
have many probably not listeners viewers
from Montana or the area he was actually
brought up he was actually brought up in
a couple of articles from the intercept
he's a Liberian refugees he came here
during the Civil War there and was like
on the brink of starvation and right now
he's up against Republican Steve days
and I think he's got a really good
chance I don't see on his website Wilmot
Collins that is he's not very specific
and I haven't seen too many public
appearances and questions and really no
but he says he's for Medicare for all
whether that's a single-payer Bernie
style Medicare for all I'm not really
sure but it's way better than a Steve
Daines if you know anything about him I
don't he an imagined its Montana he was
the lone last standing person that was a
in support of Donald Trump's comments
about the for Congress women to go back
to their countries or whatever so he was
the only person in a closed room
meetings all Republicans that defended
Donald Trump there so that gives you an
idea and he's also funded by the Koch
brothers
or I guess I could say the Koch brother
[Laughter]
I just wanted to point everybody out
there it's Wilmot Collins calm even if
you're not in the area you can still
donate and that was about it
all right appreciate the call Wilmot
Collins doc good good write-up of him in
the intercept it's interesting candidacy
for sure gone from a 484 area code who's
this where you come from Mitchell from
the Poconos what's on your mind Mitchell
and I work for a restaurant that my
owner is a small business owner he has a
couple of restaurants in the area and
whenever I bring up the subject of
raising the minimum wage which the house
has passed so let's keep that moving
forward but you know MIT right yeah he
says you can have to you know raise
prices fire for years this is gonna
close the the unemployment is gonna go
up if the wage goes up and like I know
that that's not gonna happen I know
there's going to benefit the economy but
how do I explain it to a small business
owner who's trying to protect his
profits and pain you know lower wages
you don't but I mean small business
owners are you know a large part of the
middle class well yeah I mean look I
think I I just think that speaking as a
small business owner myself you're
always worried right that something's
gonna happen and you know well I think
you you you know I I don't I don't wake
up in the middle of the night and think
like oh you know YouTube's gonna do
monetize this or something like that but
you know I
just don't think you're gonna be able to
convince him beyond saying like look you
know what people have the same fear in
Seattle I mean there are studies out
there that basically show that it's not
that it's nothing that it that is that
it that it it's not gonna create the the
problems that he thinks it is he can
raise the prices because a lot of the
people who eat at his restaurant are
gonna be making more money or their
their their family members are and so
people are gonna feel a little more
flush I mean I think like I the only
thing I you know you could show him a
couple of studies and say it's not gonna
be as bad as you think it is and it's
something actually that will create some
growth I mean who has the idea that his
employees most of us are working to live
we're not these aren't just side jobs
you know we're making starvation wages
essentially and you saying that it just
means that we need to work harder or we
need to get more jobs or whatever but
it's like like I say yeah like he
doesn't he doesn't care I mean he
doesn't want he doesn't want it to eat
into his profits I mean that's basically
it and I can you know I can understand
that's not such a foreign like oh do I
ever know it's like you can't it's not
it's not you know I understand the
concept of like I want more money in my
pocket not less that's not you know
that's not Greek it's it's just like
sorry dude sorry ultimately if the wages
to go up for everybody there would be a
stimulated economy and he would make
more money in the long run my well he
might or he might just make the same or
he might make a little less I don't know
I mean you know who's to say but the
fact of the matter is you just told me
that his employees are barely eking by
and so
know what one of them just lost their
house it raised the prices on your food
pay people more I mean one more question
for you you're right if he raises those
prices people will still be able to
afford it and he could pay us more money
but uh another argument that I often
have with them is its a welfare state
it's like how he says is the problem and
you know my managers have this issue too
that you know people are eating my tax
dollars and I see it all the time when I
deliver to people they they don't work
or they they just order beer for you
know every day of the week thank you is
it a problem the welfare seat or if it
is like how do we fix that I mean are
there people who are abusing the system
I would imagine oh yeah but well I mean
but how much like I mean like how many
and what system is not abused oh no I
get that I say that I I said like
there's going to be people who are not
going to get off their butt and work but
like the majority of it it's a safety
net right I mean I don't know I'm not on
food assistance you know like you think
people get but it's you know are you the
restaurant owner sir are you secretly
the restaurant owner every time a
customer walks in that we know is on
government assistance or homeless or
something inside fear and a book on
their face well what kind of funding do
you think a homeless person is getting
they get about $50 a day to pick up
trash in the Poconos called to pick up
the poconos so they're working because
they get paid to work and they buy beer
do you have an issue with other people
come in with their paycheck I don't have
an issue is it but they do your owners
do the owners do well they should turn
away every
comes in buys beer we have this like
higher I get news for us I've spent my
days picking up the trash in the Poconos
and I had no home I would probably take
my 50 bucks and drink Sam drinks a lot
of around here is pretty hostile to the
homeless I have for you the people you
work for
they're a-holes they're bad people there
no oh yeah there's no convincing them so
just tell them not to worry they don't
even have to go out and vote because
there's no way any of this stuff is
gonna pass that's the way I would
convince crazy Bernie appreciate the
thanks I would just tell in those
situations the best thing you can do is
just tell them like do you guys got no
problems I wouldn't even vote nothing's
ever gonna change Trump's I don't worry
about it God everybody agrees with you
those guys who spend you spend the day
picking up trash and get $50 they
shouldn't be allowed to spend it on
booze at your booze store I love them
they might actually be more afraid of
that demoralizing from people like I
wouldn't sell the people who don't
deserve their alcohol know how hard it's
been to convince Sam that people deserve
to be members of this podcast it's
exhausting it's what the pants it's one
thing to Lula saying like the elite in
Brazil were complaining about airports
looking like bus stops but to complain
about beer stories they're buying beer
would Marge with money they earn the
least desirable job manageable to work
all day for 50 bucks picking up trash
that's not a government handout
look I love this idea that though that I
mean you can't you know the idea that
well I'm trying to segue into this but
here's somebody who I know also has a
problem with certain morality I love the
the morality that we're being preached
it's just the whole set of this is a
woman who apparently is a shin the City
Council is it
oh she's running for City Council
hopeful oh okay are you sure I think is
she can today I think is she not a
member of the City Council you sure
about that at the very least she's uh
running for reelection in Marysville
Michigan and the my sense of Michigan
largely
is about white people wanting to make
sure that black people don't get their
tax dollars is is like an animating
factor in Michigan and it breaks down on
city lines and when you get stuff like
these emergency takeovers of cities and
what not so much of it is about that
there is a story I have about Flint that
the those kids who grew up during that
era of the lead poisoning the number of
kids in special education today versus
five or six years ago is up by 56% it
was a 10 or 11 percent I think about
seven years ago and now it's at about 20
25 percent kids needing a you know
basically with special education needs
and of course the system is completely
taxed the teachers are completely taxed
I don't mean actually paying tax I mean
that they're physically overtax one in
five students in Flint's public schools
are eligible for special education the
percentage of special education students
is increased by 56% rising from 13.1 in
2013 - which is the year of the school
year before the water crisis began to
20.5% last year schools are understaffed
teachers or overwhelm parents are
frustrated and here is a a woman a
former candidate for the City Council in
Marysville Michigan since with drum she
was dropped out over the week based upon
her sense you know her
keep Marysville great again
here it is criticized exactly what you
said yesterday you talked about you
didn't believe in you wanted to what if
what did you want to happen with
Marysville you didn't you wanted it to
stay a certain way tell us about that
well we like Marysville the way it is
but as far as having a black couple
moving in we have no problem with that
but where it's wrong is when you have a
white white woman in a black husband a
white wife and a black husband together
that's wrong and vice versa advisor
it's simple what is simply against the
Bible like I was telling her God created
Adam and Eve same kind same race all
around and that's how he wants that
example I am NOT an expert at the Bible
but I'm pretty sure it wasn't like Adam
and Eve same kind same race I don't
think that I do remember where it said
that they were lily-white and when the
Bible said something to the effect of
like it's we said Adam and he
Eve not Adam in Leticia or something
like that
what is this West Side Story no my bad
you don't know about that yet
just keep this in mind when you're a jet
you're a jet all the way they'll
understand this thousands of years from
now telling her God created Adam and Eve
same kind same race all around and
that's how he wants that he's our
example right there talk about what you
want what what is it that you want
Mary's Mother's Day you said something
in particular that you wanted it to stay
white tell us about that well just that
is it's a nice city the way it is we
have meaning white if if black people
have a black couple wants to move in
fine but to but they have the mixed
marriage no talk about though but white
why then say it should stay white then
talk about thee and that's okay if you
feel like that I mean as far as a
journalist you know what why do you
think I mean you're entitled to your
opinion why do you think Marysville
should stay white we like it the way it
is we move T when we moved here we
didn't know anything about it initially
and we have just been comfortable with
the way it is is there anything I change
your mind well like I say if if a black
wife and a black husband move in no
problem it's just the inner marriage and
the form boards and the form boards
right of course because you know how God
said in the Bible we don't take
immigrants there's no stories in the
Bible at all about foreign-born people
coming into let's say
gypped right there's nothing nothing
along those lines or coming in from the
land of Canaan to the land of Canaan I
only know the old the old version we
only know the past that lady should
start a great wing podcast I honestly
don't think she really has the charisma
for you oh I don't know she's got the
line down like we accept the black
people are here so we'll deal with that
but no foreigners I'm not it's not the
race I'm concerned with it's the mixing
of the races and I'm concerned with so
I'm not racist I'm just for clarity
organization that's what I like I don't
like chaos why is everything about
graceful I don't understand why she had
to drop out why can't she have a
conversation about this and present her
ideas what I don't understand is why
everything spouts faithful people she's
talking about mattad you make it about
race exactly what obsessed exactly
constantly about race oh let's since
we're on the right-wing lunatic let's go
to know the Ben Shapiro interviewed Liz
wheeler of the one what is it one
America Network oh I thought he was
supposed to be top tier now he's
interviewing her for this now they must
have some type of like tie-in deal or
something oh she's got a book so this is
the way this is the tit for tat you have
me on I'll have you on type of thing and
this is the way that we grow our shows
great posture yeah that's fantastic
makes him look tall too yeah in fact I
think they actually lowered her seat it
looks like it seats a little bit lower
than its but that's our make sure that
she's called and uncomfortable so this
is on the bench Pierrot Sunday showcase
and you know I'm old enough to remember
when George W Bush got in front of a
national
primetime television audience it said
with a heavy heart because they must
protect the traditional marriage and the
family unit that he wants to promote a
an amendment to the Constitution to
prevent gay people from marrying the
people they want to marry and he'd said
it with a heavy heart and then they they
they lost the salience of that as an
electoral issue and then they moved on
to transgender folks why are you guys
obsessed something that the left has
forgotten about it's called objective
truth there are two genders male and
female it's coded within our DNA it's
not bigoted to say that it's not
intolerant to say that it's possible I
mean I don't want to get you know I
don't be a pederast yeah but gender you
certainly don't but that is not true
that gender is that is a major category
error yeah I mean a good but that's a
good categorize I'm sorry that's like a
category era that doesn't even require
any like new post Montlake that is
medically historically not true yes
right is not a concept that is not even
in the realm of as well we're debating
this stuff in a forum that is not true
she might as well have said like
something to the effect of like look
everyone knows that a preference for
pink is coded in your DNA as opposed to
a preference for blue which is why we
put babies girl babies in pink and boy
babies in blue yeah the simple response
to this sort of claptrap is just can you
historicize gender for me briefly right
exactly but but bench bureau
incidentally the intellectual pillar of
the right I guess he just missed class
that day at Harvard there are two
genders male and female it's coded
within our DNA it's not bigoted to say
that it's not intolerant to say
it's a simple matter of biology I will
never let the left shut me up
from saying that because it is the truth
no matter what they say again
conservatives should offer a tremendous
amount of compassion to people suffering
from gender dysphoria because they
deserve our compassion that must be an
incredible burden to feel that you are
trapped in the wrong body to feel that
you are a different gender that's a
legitimate psychiatric disorder and we
should treat these people with dignity
and respect and love but treating them
with dignity and respect and love is not
allowing them to be used as political
pawns for the left's political agenda
and that's what the left is doing they
are trying to exploit these people under
the guise of saying they're tolerant
under the guise of saying they're trying
that you know we're trying to include
transgender people in polite society the
left is actually wait a second okay so I
just want you to follow this because
this is really this is I mean I can tell
she sat down and had to work this out
because this is a this is a really
you're going look you go in the long way
to get there just to be clear this is
also something you hear that the left
does with black people as well and
immigrants they they feel pity for these
people because they're being exploited
by the Democrats and the left and who
don't really want it to all rate them
and don't it's not really about getting
them rights in allowing them to
actualize and be into and for people to
be able to reach their potential and to
be happy and be respected it's not
really about that well then you've got
to ask like what what is what why would
the Democrats or laughter whoever it is
why would they exploit these people in
this way what would they gain huh guys
of saying they're trying that you know
we're trying to include transgender
people in polite society the left is
actually exploiting them and we
shouldn't let them do that because it's
part of their larger scheme if you will
their larger scheme to undermine the
family
because when you when you advocate for
transgenderism meaning when you do that
politically what you're doing is you're
saying that there's no real gender roles
right and if there's no traditional
gender roles and there can't be any
traditional relationships if there's no
traditional relationships then there
can't be a traditional marriage if
there's not a traditional marriage and
there can't be a traditional family unit
if there's not a traditional family unit
then everybody in our nation is rendered
dependent on the government which
conservatives identify as the ultimate
goal of many Democratic politicians they
want money and they want power and to do
that they control the people that I mean
honestly like I would like to graph that
out because you know what was great
there was the what I would call the
Cascade if there's no okay if there if
it's possible that there are non
traditional gender roles then there are
no traditional gender roles and if
there's no traditional gender roles
there's no traditional relationships and
if there's no traditional relationships
there's no traditional families and if
there's no traditional families and
there's no traditional support
structures like it just sort of like
these steps that you take that because
the the the sort of the the the diction
is the same that they necessarily are
true like you're picking these which is
why of course when the Obama
administration made that ruling and
reminded schools that they needed to
have allow transgender people to go into
the bathrooms that is consistent with
their their gender that is why the
divorce rate skyrocketed in the wake of
that I mean except for of course it did
not and there's no family right I mean
that's the argument that and you are on
the street and pink is blue then bluest
pink then there's no family then
everyone's gay then the government
government takes over because
everybody's gay which is why you should
by this supplement we got to privatize
Social Security check the transportation
yeah I mean it now we can privatize
Social Security because people that
trans there you go so there it is
alright let's round out this right-wing
Stooges speaking of which there's still
some people who are trying to weaponize
homophobia not just transgenderism and
that's these three or four schlubs now
wait a second is the guy I can't figure
out there's the guy who's got Santa
Claus and he's got his own selfie stick
then there's the other dude who's got
the oversized suit and then there's the
other guy who's got the oversized belly
and then there's like a security guard I
guess next to him but they all did they
all shaved their heads for this or what
this is a pre straight pride march in
Boston you know I mean it's just these
guys trying to be funny on some level
but also just trying to professionally
troll this got a tremendous amount of
attention and news across the country I
mean we heard about this months and
months ago and it turns out they did
this the day after they had the parade
200 people showed up 200 people and
there was 600 protesters like how bad of
an idea do you have to have that only
200 people show up when you get this
amount of press right I mean that's
stunning but when you hear these guys
talk you realize like incompetent here
we go one thing if weren't straight you
wouldn't be here buddy
John a little background on you sir
pause it for one second now I hate to be
a pendant but there are there are
instances where gay people have had
straight sex and had children in fact
yeah I bet
welcome to the wild sab seen a bulb ask
a wild or what yeah but here is a I
don't know where this reporter is from
who is it do we know who this guy is
he's asking these dolts he's asking some
hard-hitting question yes some questions
and it's pretty good actually they
weren't quite prepared for this John a
little background on you sir thanks Anna
John a little background on you you work
for Eddie two tons you convicted felon
for 35 years are you gonna say that you
knew nothing ever in the Feres activity
sir no I asked you if you knew anything
about his nefarious activities in the 35
years you worked for you've spoken in
support of him the past sir I do like
them he's a nice guy you always treated
me well okay people you might have a
depressing effect on on the parade we
have hundreds of people that are
registered and they're coming from all
over the world and all over the United
States
positive I just want to reiterate that's
not something you brag about we've got
hundreds of people registered from all
over the world in the entire world of
homophobia and trolling we got a couple
hundred Brian Richie oh it looks like
this is the camera Oh Brian Richie okay
the camera right and all over the United
States so that's what we know so far
it's our first parade so who knows
it was just me amok we said we're gonna
March it's playing the expectations game
yeah there you go
doesn't matter we have a point to make
and we think we think it's okay to be
straight that's all and there's nothing
wrong with that it doesn't make you a
hater and if people are saying that it's
just bizarre what the heck's wrong with
being straight we think it's great to be
straight you say don't hate the string
we have to say that the taxpayers are
upset that city resources are going to
be wasted because you three guys can't
get laid Philadelphia your girlfriend
what's your name we're going to
Philadelphia your girlfriend's because
what's the name what I'm sorry what sir
I'm what you said media sir I love when
the Santa guy tries to let go after his
girlfriend and everyone else just let it
go you're not winning this right exactly
well you know what I'll tell you
something why I like this is because
it's so petty that comments so petty
but for guys like this like I grew up
with guys like this for them that's like
that cuts that dad is like oh no that's
exactly I mean honestly it cuts so much
especially the guy who's kind of
good-natured the guy who's actually the
guy an aviators is laughing well I feel
for him she wants it again yeah is it
one more time
you say don't hate this straight we have
to say that the taxpayers are upset that
city resources are going to be wasted
because you twee guys can't get laid
Philadelphia girlfriend what's your name
we're going to Philadelphia your
girlfriends what's the name what what
Santa it's not gonna happen from
Philadelphia girl
Santa you know is feeling very sensitive
you know what happened is I had some
apple on whoever that reporter was and
he was trying to say like we know where
your girlfriend's from buddy don't you
think that's what he's doing there your
girlfriend hate Billy and then it is
like you want to try something like that
in the gut you're blowing the oppo buddy
yeah yeah exactly
Wow that's wasting taxpayer dollars
because you can't get laid oh my god
yeah that's pretty good
enjoy it I have feeling Kent County Ken
probably very excited about these guys
we'll see not if they got faced like
that can't be associated with that you
could talk the stench of loser I was
there with the spirit but they didn't
represent it well let's hear Andrew yang
you know I mean look to be fair do yang
I think that he's probably running to
promote the idea of of a ubi and and I
think in some respects also helpfully
demonstrates that a ubi can go one of
two ways not always necessarily the way
that we'd want it to go on the left his
reasons why Milton Friedman was a big
fan of ubi nevertheless you got to
expect particularly if you're in the
second you know if you make it to the
top tier of the debate right
has been 12:15 legit candidates who have
been jettisoned from the island at least
of the debates you got to be prepared to
answer some foreign policy questions and
here's Andrew yang responding to
questions about what he would do in
regards to foreign aid and Israel um so
in terms of the money we're giving to an
ally like Israel my first instinct would
be like why would we reduce it you know
and so so certainly if I communicated
something else like that's not the the
idea at all there are certain
relationships we have that to me we need
to rebuild and strengthen and I would
suggest that our relationship with
Israel is one of them you know you'd
have to look at in a case by case and
say like what's happening in terms of
our bilateral relationship with a
particular party but my my zeal is to
try and build strong alliances and
partnerships if someone's been working
with us for a long time they should feel
like they're being rewarded for that
frankly and then if someone has an
interest in working with us we should be
open to rewarding that too but for each
country you know like you'd have to look
at what's going on at that time and what
the lead-in has been so when it comes to
land in Israel that's being taken even
though it was granted to certain
Palestinian families by the UN how do
you feel about constricting Israel
almost to prevent that from happening
and constricting political influence by
American leaders in Israel I'm not
trying to stand the question I'll answer
it more generally which is like my
stance on this is that it's going to be
hard for the United States to constrict
like an ally or really just about any of
its partners in a decision that they
feel is central to them and I don't
think that's our priority it's not that
we're somehow giving people aid so that
we can then twist their arm about things
that you know that they find important I
got to say this seems to be a complete
fundamental misunderstanding of what
foreign policy is
first off he perceives our relationships
with other countries as if we were
business partners and that a we don't
have any national security interests be
that we don't have any guiding
principles or that we hope to
essentially you know even pretend to
promote around the world I mean look if
you know we hear a lot that we need to
support Israel because it's the only
democracy in the Middle East now I think
that is a pretty dubious claim in terms
of it being a democracy or at least
depends on how loose you want to define
democracy but if that is the case well
what's the point we want to promote
democracy and we want to promote
anything else we want to promote
democracy in Palestine do we want to
promote democracy in other places the
idea that we don't as a that the United
States has not attempted to constrict
allies I mean all countries but allies
their behavior that's just absurd that's
exactly what you do try and get their
their policies to align with yours I
mean I just want to elaborate one is
that this is actually basically the same
thing that he said essentially the Mehdi
Hasan when he was given an opportunity
to get foreign policy questions several
months ago so I don't think it's
definitely not just that he doesn't know
what he's talking about it's that and
frankly look he's a corporate centrist
Democrat from Manhattan it's not
terribly surprising he'd have a lacuna
position and that is the other thing
that I do want to say do you really not
understand that that question I think
about Palestinians being dissed no I
think he understood that / that's my
point I mean I'm going back to this
Mehdi Hassan interview he's got a right
wing position on those issues and I will
say it's absolutely not terribly
certainly the same as everybody from the
delegation from New York they all
basically say the same thing even if
they nod at some point towards vaguely
acknowledging the obscene human rights
violations there you hear that all the
time oh you can't do it Israel you know
if you pressure Israel they'll get even
more scared like some type of like you
know cornered animal or something uh so
I I think you know Andrew yang does in
fact like a lot of other issues it's
very odd that he doesn't feel a need to
even just say like hey I'm basically
running on one thing he wants to say
that he has viable positions on other
things and usually when he has viable
positions on other things there - the
hard right you know particularly on
these types of foreign policy stuff so
you know that's just reality I'm sure a
lot of people will get freaked out by
that but that is what it is all right
let's go to the phones you're calling
from a 308
area code who's this where you calling
from from Nebraska hello Kowalski what's
on your mind
well I'm offended Trump doesn't need to
talk about bullocks thinking of that
crazy lunatic I just wanted to let your
viewers know some AG news the ethanol
industry was basically betrayed over you
guys's break so farmers aren't too happy
a demand in catastrophic news the carbon
sink in Indonesia on the island of Java
and the massive amounts of basically
biological material in the condo face
and are both pretty much on the chopping
block for development so basically it
has three Brazil events all going on
simultaneously so it's kind of a bleak
Tuesday yeah yeah it is I don't know
what to say I mean it's this is another
example of where you know theoretically
a different type of leadership of the
United States
I don't know if you would have gotten
bolson ro in the first place with a
different leadership in the United
States there might not be the same
latitude and same sort of like
willingness to have some someone like
that elected because there would be some
sense that perhaps Brazil would suffer
some consequence you know one thing to
really keep in mind though Indonesia is
the world's largest Muslim nation and
there are fairly moderate one and this
kind of rhetoric coming from the United
States can be pretty disruptive to their
intentions I mean they're not all
sunshine and roses I just want a little
front it is very important though to you
know that the the moves strongly that
were put in place by the Obama
administration set the stage for Boston
ro so that's an important other part of
the equation
I mean I don't know if the Obama
administration would if you didn't have
a DOJ back investigation that pull it
that criminalized the party that goes
back to the Obama administration if you
didn't have a broader reversal to pinked
I'd like the coup in Honduras the Obama
administration you you don't have an
impeachment of Dilma that they don't
object to the Obama administration I'm
just saying just as the center-right and
the right-wing forces that did this in
Brazil were thinking like ooh and then
we'll go to looked at well you can't
Bank on that right you do these things
there's consequences in this case the
consequence is definitely gonna be a
candidate like Paulson are oh yeah I
mean I just think that the the it's
without a doubt the the context was set
up but the elite in Brazil felt more
comfortable if the biggest country in
the world can elect an absolutely
excellent jackass why can't we exactly I
mean I think we can't the other under
and that's that's what I'm saying is
that you know the everybody needs to
support the candidate that is going to
push environmental issues on the
international stage was basically all I
was going to get to because uh we're all
on that spaceship together yeah
it's true though shorty Hall Kowalski
thank you have a good one
you too congratulations incidentally on
Poland's invasion that was great calm
from the seven one five area code oh hey
this is a you feel from Wisconsin you
feel from Wisconsin hello you feel
what's on your mind
I really don't wanna sound like Jimmy
door but I kind of wanted to talk about
the constant barrage and shaming of
people who vote third party okay and
well so in Wisconsin last time the
turnouts of Democrats was really poor
because you know Hillary to not excite
people and as a result so not only did
she you know fit Wisconsin who was the
state Trump but local elections were
also affected right fine gravelly
Feingold lost and and then etc etc but
yes right and so yeah so it's um that's
usually what happens with um when you
tell a lot of people especially at least
where I'm from pick the lesser of two
evils that's just not usually how they
operate in their day-to-day life and so
I was thinking how would you solve this
problem where that that argument is just
not going to resonate with the working
class pick the how would I wha
I mean first of all I would not campaign
on pick the lesser of two evils that's
not what I would do I mean you asking me
as a candidate what do you what is the
question
um no as a host like let's just say next
year's biting versus Trump and you know
so it's a similar situation that Hillary
versus Trump
well now you're assuming though yeah I
mean look there's an assumption you're
making right that there was a policy set
that people had a problem with with
Clinton about those people who stayed
home was like policy issues right um
some I do think there was kind of this
excitement among the the rural areas
about jobs coming back with the Foxconn
deal which now of course is very
unpopular right I got
Governor Walker for these hours but at
the time you know Trump talked about
jobs and Walker was talking about jobs
and you know right Clinton didn't even
come there I mean I think I think look I
you know I I I think it's pretty clear
that I'm not a fan of Joe Biden's but I
would imagine he's gonna come into
Wisconsin and say we're gonna get you
jobs I mean where is our job like our
job once that happens is gonna be to do
unfortunately the same thing we did in
2016 we're just saying a swing state you
gotta vote for Joe Biden and who cares
in a non swings I think I think though I
the one olive branch I'll give in terms
of I guess what people call vote shaming
or whatever is I'm very time focused so
you know I I don't care how somebody
voted in 2016 it's utterly irrelevant to
me how are they gonna vote now and right
now the primary issue is sorting a
primary in nominating Bernie Sanders and
dealing and supporting progressive
candidates so to me this is like a
conversation that's gonna I mean I hope
it doesn't take place again cuz I hope
that Joe Biden is not the nominee I hope
that comma Harris is not the nominee but
you know this conversation got
heightened at least from someone like me
in the summer and fall of 2016
when people were making not only not
even just sort of moralistic arguments
they were actually making strategic
arguments that were just really faulty
and we forced saw a lot of really clear
human suffering
and again there's gonna be a lot of
human suffering and Clinton as well I
mean click I make very clear to people
that you know Hillary Clinton is is
absolutely awful and repugnant to me and
it was a real you know but I have to
vote for it because I have to minimize
harm but I don't think the primary issue
right now is this conversation at all
the primary issue right now is there's
an opportunity to actually elect good
people and I hope that people have
learned from it and I also don't see and
I find it frankly equally as bizarre
like I don't get why people on Twitter
have a meltdown about someone like Susan
Sarandon every five seconds it's weird
focus on the present and then we'll see
what comes out I actually think that
there is I mean I am more of an issue
with I mean I didn't have a meltdown
when Susan Sarandon came back out this
time around and I really you know ever
think about her unless somebody brings
her up but I have more of an issue with
you know I mean listen I think it's
stupid to vote for someone you know has
no chance of winning I just think it's
stupid because you know voting is a tool
and it's a waste of your tool I think
it's irresponsible to have a platform
and encourage people to do something
stupid
I think that's worse than doing
something stupid because if you're
someone who is somewhat knowledgeable
about this stuff or have a platform and
feel confident that you're knowledgeable
enough to sort of suggest to other
people what they should do then I think
you have a higher responsibility and
frankly a greater I don't know if
culpability is the right word but a
greater responsibility I just that's the
way I feel yeah I guess some fermions
like the so the first election I voted
in was the 2000 election and I voted
Ralph Nader you know that this effect
before Wisconsin was really a swing
state this is kind of the upcoming the
first time where Wisconsin thought of
yeah and you know like when I voted for
Nader I felt proud and I did vote
Democrat you know for
genell's below the presidential whining
um and yeah I'm just concerned when
saying two different things here -
because you're conflating two different
groups of people because we didn't have
a situation where people came out and
didn't vote for Clinton but voted for
Feingold we just had a situation where
people stayed at home and what that to
me suggests is not so much that they had
a problem with the with the message
because you know Feingold very hard to
lump together with with Hillary Clinton
I think by people who are you know sort
of have but I think there was a just a
sense like they there was not enough
activity in the state you needed a top
of the tipping ticket to come to
generate that enthusiasm to come out and
vote and and that enthusiasm you know
it's not like Hillary Clinton if she
wanted to talk about her policies III
can't imagine that people would be like
well you know based upon where we are
now having debt-free college as opposed
to a free college I'm not gonna go out
and vote I just don't think that people
made that calculation specifically
profoundly did not trust or like her for
absolutely just flub that is fine but
just to connect why didn't they wrote
both people who didn't state to people
well you know I don't know why they
didn't vote for well uncle I know if you
read based upon your story no no I
didn't they vote for Russ Feingold I'm
sorry
well based upon my story which is the
reported story by people like Malaika
Jabalia she asked them about Hillary
Clinton so I don't know why people
didn't go and what did she ask him about
Russ Feingold she didn't ask them about
my boys you're trying to say that the
reason why people didn't come out
because of Hillary Clinton it's
definitely part of it that's obviously
part of it but in addition to that I
would just say I would never shame
somebody who didn't vote ever I think
for somebody who stayed home the job is
purely to motivate them and you know if
you didn't regardless of whatever the
reasons are you've got to do your best
to address voting and listening to this
show right like like who is good not
going out and voting they're listening
to
like I listen to this show for three or
four years and I decide not to go and
vote in the election there is no there
is no did Yuri wander the clean
d'affaires pieces though he'd really got
to read those
you gotta sharpen up on that I read her
thing but but who is not voting that's
listening to this show nobody people
like if you're not going out and voting
for us Feingold in Wisconsin you just
don't give a that's you didn't read
that piece no no I get you see you
you're turned off and you're apathetic
about a revoked but it's super easy to
sort of disengage because you don't like
the person on the top of the ticket then
go out and vote for the senator who's
gonna vote for you go out and vote
against the the the the the governor who
is gonna destroy collective bargaining
in your state I'm sorry I get that
people were turned off by Hillary
Clinton and I get that people are you
know feel dispossessed but I don't know
that you can reach them maybe you can
maybe you can't but I think part of the
problem was there just wasn't enough
activity there I mean actually literally
going in the last week of the election
cycle in most polls was five to ten well
because it it presumed it presumed it
presumed a voter turnout model like they
had seen in the past except for the work
wasn't done on the ground like it had
been done in the past and so there
wasn't the same mobilization that there
had been in the past I mean but it's
also like we reuse the highly engaged
and frankly the people listened to the
show or not the people that we need to
persuade anyway so it's kind of
secondary I'm so I'm just saying I like
the vote shaming thing like whose vote
are we shaming well who's voted well if
you're shaming somebody for not voting
or you're shaming somebody for voting
third party you're shaming them I'm
saying that it's like that's actually
that's the biggest problem this
conversation is I actually I think you
the caller is a hundred percent right
and 'unless data and reporting bears
this out for people who stay at home and
so on
that shaming and attacking them is
counterproductive stupid and elitist
I think the problem is is that this
small cross-section of people that we
interact with that refused to vote for
Hillary Clinton are very highly engaged
and they just have really bad arguments
well this isn't that got spilled out to
a broader electorate that it shouldn't
write in my agreement is that exactly
I'm not shaming the voters because I
don't have access to the voters I'm
shaming the people who do have access to
the voters and you know frankly a Susan
Sarandon may be one of those people she
may not be I don't know I doubt it give
yourself more credit I don't know I mean
after the 2000 election on that I mean
how many years was broken either blamed
for George Bush well I'll tell you
something
as a Ralph Nader voter myself in New
York State Ralph Nader made a promise
early on that he would not campaign in
those swing states now I don't think
Ralph Nader's D the only problem but Al
Gore lost that election by less than a
thousand votes I'm interested in what
you do now I'm interested in what you do
well as to that point if Sarandon
endorses just signed again I'm gonna
call her an idiot sure yeah exactly but
again when we come to also and even in
the gore case I will say Ralph Nader
does not have an honorable record as far
as I can understand from 2000 because of
the campaign promise but even then we
know didn't he also said he was gonna
build the Green Party and they're
exactly felt you didn't try right but he
failed to hit that 5% and that's
actually another difference I want to
say I think if you voted for Ralph Nader
in 2000 that was the last time in modern
politics where you actually had a very
tangible clear and actual achievable
goal like he could have won 5 percent of
the national vote and then there would
have been money transferred to the Green
Party now I don't know what that would
have even led to but the argument of
that campaign was so much different than
the last couple of these like fantasy
runs and that's a distinction as well
but even in that case
the voter suppression the Supreme Court
the gore campaign all of these things
are still much bigger factors than they
are and people like to act like this is
about voter shaming when really were
party and media shaming right like this
is about the Green Party sake people
talking about voters you don't there's
no voters who didn't vote who
hear my voice that's also know that's
also that's another thing I know who I'm
talking late is what I'm saying
don't conflate the United States Green
Party as it stands now is a utterly
stupid and shameful thing and I and I'm
sure it's filled by the way with really
great people but honestly people great
politics so I wish we're doing other
more productive things that experiments
failed I appreciate the call you break
it up you say that nobody's listening to
your ship that nobody's listening to
your show and not voting but there are
people who watch your show and then talk
to others and you know that oh yeah yeah
and and I think you know I don't think
the idea is to go out and browbeat them
it's a dumb thing to do and I'm trying
to encourage people to go out and get
the other their friends to vote okay
appreciate the dilemma and I wasn't the
thing that you specifically I was kinda
just broadly all right well I
appreciated I want every single vote
voted for Jill Stein just march through
the streets I saw some tweet that
annoyed me throughout the vacation and
it was just something to the effect I'm
trying to think if I can remember what
the phrasing was some do you the
effective like I'm not gonna vote blue
no matter who it is the politicians
responsibility to earn my vote and it's
like or buddy but it's also like but
it's also like this this attitude of
like I mean I think it is incumbent upon
politicians to go out and get votes but
I also think that as a voter you also
have some responsibility
like like this is not you're not
consumer this is the problem is that all
these people are saying this right we'll
also spin around and get start going me
like you're a neoliberal there is
nothing more neoliberal then the concept
of a a politician has to earn my vote
like it's one thing to say that
politicians need to go out and get votes
but you as an individual to say like the
only thing that's going to make me vote
for that person he's gonna be if they've
earned it if they've sold me on them
like it's a concise I get to purchase as
opposed to there are real-world
implications for this choice you're
going to make and you have a choice
you've two cups of water you know one
has deadly poison one has poison that's
gonna give you diarrhea but you have no
other source of water what are you gonna
do you know it's like and it's possible
that if you get enough diarrhea you
could die I just want to say but I just
want to say though I I am increasingly
like if you come at it with a move of a
green party whatever I I just think it's
a total waste of time and exactly what
Sam saying about how neoliberal that
argument is I agree completely I do
think the crisis were in and the numbers
were in are really clear and you know if
we keep having basically you know it
look if electoral politics and I would
still recommend people vote to minimize
harm so I'll never reverse myself in
that position but if people start to
increasingly say maybe things need to
come through other currents and politics
because these seem systems are not
delivering and the crisis point is
really approaching fast I would be
curious what those ideas and thought
processes are because I'm more
sympathetic to people's concern with the
durability of the process and it mean
that tangibly like if Joe Biden is
elected president his proposals on
climate change yes they're better than
Trump's they're not gonna accelerate the
harm I agree okay that's that's the easy
part that's already taken care of but we
also know that what he's saying is
literally scientifically not valid like
we
we know that right so at a certain point
these cut metaphor you know these water
metaphors are true to a point but we're
reaching that departure point as well
I also get annoyed that we get sort of
painted as the sort of electoral focus
because this is not what we're saying
I'd like us to de-emphasize that what
are the most exciting things about
Bernie right well you pick the choices
you have and the way you make those
choices better isn't by how you
magically decide to vote and what the
funny thing is to people who are like
exact they've got to earn my vote my
candidate was only able to get two
percent exactly wait what it's you and
what army that's a poem well and I got
it meaning I'm very concretely like this
is nowhere I met I went back and forth
with some guy because he was annoyed you
know about something I said about the
Green Party or whatever but it became
really clear in the conversation that he
was occupying a nice facility he was he
was doing so much actual work that to me
it's like you know what dude I disagree
but this is not the point of emphasis in
my conversation you're an
honest-to-goodness activist and you're
putting it on the line and I'm you know
that's more relevant than bickering
about that other stuff right oh yeah
absolutely
I mean I I the the value of going and
occupying the ice probably a lot more
valuable than who that individual votes
for in the final analysis but that's
because what he's doing is a public act
as opposed to the private right voting
and that's why my criticism is I mean
you asked me is it smart for you to vote
this way I'll say no it's dumb but in
terms of my criticism it's for people
who are publicly who are do doing the
public thing who are broadcasting like
this is the better you know the you know
and and I include that on Twitter you
you know you put it out there like you
could earn my then I just yeah it's the
public discourse hey you know who you
pull the let's just pure neoliberal
formulation I mean that's and again by
the way very technically accurate use of
the word neoliberal there too as well
Elad right fully market eyes folks
that's all the time that we have today
but we'll be back tomorrow live
bye-bye no more conversations like this
till the convention right yeah we'll see
we'll see him to this
[Music]
no sir
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
yeah clock is ticking
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made
so the option when you tell get paid
the rub
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
you know
the teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
