[Music]
and then for my question so do you want
to talk about Bernie or do you want to
talk about unions well I'm gonna get to
Bernie in a minute so tell me what's the
Union question obviously I should have
top line that the you know unions are on
strike
you know the GM workers I've heard that
Kaiser Permanente workers might go on
strike I mean if these strikes
intensifies this is one of the biggest
strike yes this is hugely important so
tell me about strikes okay well it's a
kind of like abuse last question so we
know that unions have been like
thoroughly destroyed and defamed
over over recent history to the point
where while they're still doing some
good things for American workers they're
largely distrusted I find it people
don't particularly care about them
anymore
and and it's become increasingly obvious
that we need to have like worker
protections of some kind in place in
this country so like my new slash
question is like what can we do to
protect unions I guess because I mean
short of like institutionalizing them
within the US government with you know
protections of some kind I don't know
how we can prevent the same mistakes you
made in the past from happening again
where it's they get co-opted they get
defamed and they get demonized and a
couple other D words if you can think of
any what well I mean there's a lot that
needs to happen so one let's start with
what they're actually doing right I mean
we have people going on strike right now
and we should be getting them sandwiches
and pizza what and having utmost
solidarity with them and also the people
in Harlan County in Kentucky I mean
these are by far some of the most
significant important things happening
in America strikes those teachers
strikes in places like West Virginia and
Chicago just can't be overstated how
fundamental and important I mean there's
really
nothing more important in politics in
many respects than a powerful labor
union movement so you know then the
broader question of what labor you know
yes there's a discrediting of labor
unions that spans everything from a
relentless propaganda and institutional
war against them from the most powerful
forces in the world whether you're
talking about individual companies like
Walmart or just capital itself as a
global class and then starting in the
late 70s when you know the sort of Kenzi
and arrangement started to collapse and
we went through this you know this
aggressive waves of neoliberal ization
which we're still living under that is
locked and loaded at the labor union
movement and so then you have you know
yes there's some labor union corruption
and dysfunction and parochialism for
sure but then there's also just you know
justifiable shortsightedness is how I'll
put it you know if you're under attack
from every single side you're gonna look
for small wedges of how to protect
yourself and your workers and that's
beyond understandable and you know this
is another this is another case now
where you know it's just like the
Sanders campaign it's like look the the
least quote/unquote reasonable or
pragmatic or all these other overused to
the point of meaningless words you know
is really the only rational course right
now and not me no that's why people are
striking right striking is a dangerous
and terrifying thing to do
GM just stripped 42,000 people of their
health insurance for striking which is
another reason um that single-payer
health care is elemental to the battle
for working class politics so what do
you know so it's a it's a massive risk
and people are doing it because they are
so squeezed and so abused by capital
that they have weather and capital in
the broadest sense whether it's
austerity in the form of underpaying and
and disrespecting and demonizing
teachers or you know being a GM worker
whose relentlessly underpaid and so on
even after you agreed to take cuts when
the companies got bailed out by the
federal government it could have been
workers and small businesses that were
bailed out not the shareholder class
right so right I you know and so I don't
know I know that strikes and a labor
union movement could not be more
important it's elemental the other big
thing is you know to the beat a drum
I'll be upfront about I'm gonna keep
beating and beating and beating electing
Bernie Sanders president I mean we don't
even have anyone walked about his
workplace democracy plan you know if he
bans right-to-work legislation that I
was talking to a Canadian political
analyst recently he was saying not only
would that help tens of twenty million
all of America that is in capital class
holders that would profoundly help
Canadian workers it would profoundly
help Mexican workers you need to have
somebody who isn't just sort of vaguely
pro-labor ish you need somebody who
understands that labor power is the
foundation of progressive politics and
clawing here right now yeah so back
strikes have solidarity I think you know
at least for me I was talking with
somebody recently who actually I met at
the Chicago live show who's doing
amazing work organizing Amazon workers
and I don't we need to talk with labor
union or I mean look labor union
organizers are you know they're by far
some of the most important people on the
planet we need to be listening to them
we need to be following their guidance
and we need to be getting strategic as
anything and then big picture we a
hundred percent need to elect Bernie
Sanders president he's the most Pro
worker candidate in modern American
history so you know we have the tools
it's a question of whether or not we'll
take action I appreciate the call
brother thank you
not a problem picker man take care all
right let's uh let's actually play this
clip this is Bernie Sanders he was at
the the workers presidential summit and
he talks about
he will use the federal government to
advocate for workers and again this is
somebody who's put forward a plan that
would do everything from banned right to
work to set up tax structures to support
worker cooperative businesses we can use
the power of the federal government to
say to corporations do the right thing
treat your employees with respect and
dignity and you get good federal
contracts treat your employees with
contempt and disrespect you're gonna get
to the very back of that line that's it
and he's got a 40 year track record to
prove it and he actually did a lot of
these things when he was mayor of
Burlington in fact look up his record
incredibly successful I hope we have the
luxury of having this problem but if
Bernie were to win the presidency we're
gonna hear people say that what he's
doing in that regard pressure and
companies to be better for their
employees is Trump like fascist control
controlling of those idiots are already
saying that those are the that's the
yasha monk world are the hue is the
worst but yasha monk is a great case
study of what happens to young academics
when the social sciences and humanities
are totally starved
yeah then when it's much better to be a
court jester for photographers that in
the Tony Blair then actually do real
academic work to help the world it's
kind of sad he's a fraud he sucks
