this piece of video was was fascinating
first of all there seems to be like an
assemblage of sort of the legion of doom
of right-wingers where where did this
take place this was in a teepee USA
event in Florida of course Charlie Kirk
invited the great Jordan Peterson down
to student action summit student X you
got dead of constipation yet what why do
you think he's gonna have constant
Jordan Peterson because he only eats
meat I think the other thing happens
when you only eat meat via mmm I think
when you go like full keto diet as he's
doing he's gone beyond keto yeah keto
you still eat veg I think basically that
is I think the other thing happens
there's a lot of regulars actually 40
times a day well excuse me I know that
is that is the clip that is the clip
this is fascinating it's fascinating for
multiple reasons one is to watch the
assemblage of right-wing Stooges
surrounding Peterson it's fascinating to
watch Peterson attempt to to project
that he is an intellectual around these
people which is what he's doing right
he's like I just had a fascinating
thought and I wanted to just throw it
out there and it's obviously something
that he thinks is incredibly deep and in
fascinating it's fascinating to watch
the looks of dumbfounded men is that the
word they're the people around him look
completely dumbfounded and to watch
Charlie Kirk try and say something to
make it seem like he's following what
Peterson is saying and Donald Trump jr.
is also there but the what the heart of
this clip and you need to listen
carefully to what Peterson's saying
because it's completely convoluted but
he's trying to make the argument that he
thinks that he has found the way to
bridge a gap between a very very
important issue
that exists on the right and the left
and he sees a coin and the coin is
sexuality and on one side of the coin
the right is upset about something and
on the other side of the coin the left
is upset about something but they are
upset about the same thing in the
essence and when you begin to understand
this equivalence that he's making you
start to realize that the Jordan
Peterson has a very very disturbing view
of what rape is I was in Washington a
week ago and I was thinking we're
talking about how to bring people
together across the house divide because
the house is extraordinarily divided now
and people aren't talking and I thought
it would be very interesting abortion is
obviously a key issue but it's one
that's unbelievably contentious one of
the things I thought about with regards
to the abortion issue is that it's by
the time you're talking about abortion
you're probably having the wrong
conversation which is why it's so deeply
polarized right there's a sequence of
bad decisions that have already occurred
by the time that's the conversation and
one of the things you see that's really
quite interesting and I just started to
think about it this way in this last
week or so is that you know the
traditional right the conservative types
are pushing quite hard and always have
for the encapsulation of sexual behavior
within a fairly traditional structured
marriage right but you know you're
seeing sexual taboos the sexual taboos
are very common across cultures but
you're seeing the same thing you merge
on the left in a completely different
form because on the one hand especially
the radical leftist types their basic
claim is that anything goes right but
but at the same time they're putting
forward these affirmative consent
regulations and laws in many states and
they're insisting that we live in the
middle of a rape culture and that
they're acting as if sex is a very
volatile and dangerous enterprise which
actually happens to be the case and so
there's even though that that issue is
extraordinary
temps partly because people on the left
I would say would like to let a thousand
flowers bloom let's say there is an
accruing agreement that there's some
deep discussion that has to be had about
sexual immorality and that's a place
where despite the differences that some
sort of bipartisan discussion might
occur it's like obviously people are
very upset about the manner in which
sexual activity is occurring among
especially among young people they're
upset on the left and they're upset on
the right so it would be well so that's
one of the things I thought of myself
okay now look before we get to the
charlie kirk thing we got to go
backwards okay just a little bit so that
we can get read catch that but
understand what he's saying here he is
saying that there is a sexual taboo on
the left which he calls rape he
perceives rape as a sexual taboo as if
it is part of a sexual morality as
opposed to seeing rape as simply a
violent act that happens to involve
sexual organs I mean it is morality and
then it's immoral to rape people right
but it's not sexual morality it is not a
sexual taboo to not rape somebody
Tory it is lady it is not a it is not a
taboo about hands that you shouldn't use
them to strangle someone to death or to
beat their face against the curb that's
not a taboo about hands this guy does
not believe that rape is different from
sex he thinks it is some type of sex
that there is a taboo against on the
right such a strong taboo that you
actually need to have affirmative
consent and he like aside from that
demented
which I think is the most demented part
of his thinking there the idea that he
thinks that a conversation
can happen between those on the right
who have a taboo against any type of sex
that involves no consequence right
because he's gonna go on talking about
the aborted the the not the abortion
pill he's gonna be talking about the
birth control pill in a moment but he
believes that sex should have a
consequence the right has a taboo
against inconsequential sex and the left
has a taboo against sex that is forced
upon women via rape he sees that as a
possible potential for members of the US
Congress to discuss now I got it this
guy is so demented and stupid that only
he could only espouse this stuff in a
room full of these other demented people
and stupid people and that you get
charlie Kirk just like literally can't
even say with like the breath leaves him
in the middle of attempting to say that
would be really powerful and just so
continue this is just a stunning is
occurring among especially among young
people they're upset on the left and
they're upset on the right so it would
be well so that's one of the things I
thought it might I might I think it's
partly also a consequence of the fact
that we haven't adapted to the bill
birth control pill yet you know it was a
major technological revolution the birth
control pill and it's only been 50 years
and we haven't figured out what it means
for women to have control over the
reproductive function or what the
consequences should that one of what the
consequences of that should be social
the leftist types and especially in the
60s thought it could just blow some
sexual morality apart completely because
now people were free to do what they
want that isn't working there's a
there's a backlash against that on the
left as well so so it would be
well it would be fun and necessary to
think positive the backlash on the left
he is talking about to the birth control
pill is that people are against rape
that's what he's saying there that's the
backlash from the left look they're
developing this taboo against rape as if
rape is a function of the birth control
pill when this guy's so out of his mind
I honestly like I think he's just like I
like I'm a prophet this is really really
super side point but like he's talking
to Donald Trump jr. and kimberly
guilfoyle about sexual morality like
this is just not your correct audience
like there's justice Erica not reading
that they look all of them no he really
boring
this is his shtick are you kidding he
likes about Laura befuddle meant because
it makes him feel like he's operating on
a different timeline then he above there
could just finish this up super deep
fine and necessary to think fun it would
be engaging and necessary to think that
through because maybe there's some room
for a real discussion about that so I
want a lot of your speech there to be
questions if you can 70% all right so
how long do you want me to talk I think
we have you slated for quite a long time
 be trifling no I got it the
right is mad that women have too many
choices and the left is mad that women's
choices aren't being respected it's
totally the same but there is a there is
a taboo on the left like they have a
problem with like this notion that women
should have to give consent that is
taboo that they they they have developed
I mean this is really is stunning and
there is he is right about the fact that
some people have yet to come to grips
with the fact that women have control
over their own
body and the implications of that and I
would say that Jordan Peterson is is his
the is example number one is patient
zero of of people who have net wealth
monkey who who've not come to grips with
the idea that women can actually support
themselves now because they can control
their own body it's problematic for
society also speaking of sexual morality
if we go back to the clip here you can
notice bumble jack in the background
that's identifiable from the major not
he's not white with a pant it looks like
a big zip after his wife hit him with a
blow is yeah speculation and I mean okay
I don't want to argue with Jordan
Peterson too much on his own terms cuz I
feel like he knows he's being a
historical but if he thinks that women
have only been controlling their own
reproductive systems for like fifty
years uh I got something to tell him
it provided I mean the there is no doubt
that there was a revolution that took
place because of the birth control pill
right in terms of like the level of
safety the level of convenience etc etc
but the idea that he thought that that
was that that somehow rape and the
concept of consent became an issue
because of the birth control pill is
beyond demented it's beyond demented it
is it is literally like you know as soon
as I started here screams was when
people got voices like like it's it's
crazy it's crazy he also needs to read
some Sylvia Federici I don't think he's
gonna do much of any of that he should
read more in his meets in my Ryan Eisler
let's
