[Music]
let's play this though because I do want
to play this to a certain extent this is
a correction want to make a correction
here we have claimed probably off of a
according to Jerry Seinfeld miss reading
of a New York Times piece now he he
characterizes it a little bit less a
little bit more I think sort of like
innocently then I think it was but my
understanding it was in the context of
New York Times and it was not it was a
complaint that he was echoing and using
someone else's claim as authority I have
the quote here it says I hear that all
the time Seinfeld said on the heard with
Colin Cowherd
I don't play colleges but I hear a lot
of people tell me don't go near colleges
they're so PC right and but but what's
more important is why is he saying that
like does he say before and after that
like and that's ridiculous no he says
they just want to use these words that's
racist that sexist that's prejudice he
said they don't want to know what the
hell they're they don't know what the
hell they're talking about
that's what Jerry Seinfeld says correct
so in other words here is the evidence
for my assertion that these people are
wack and but apparently he doesn't like
the blowback he's been getting from that
here is a conversation with I'm sorry
Andy Kindler I apologize that the Jerry
Seinfeld has with Ricky Gervais on this
very topic it's not good enough and I've
never thought it was good enough or I'm
torn I'm torn I think it should be good
enough to say I was joking but we don't
tell certain jokes because we know
they're in inverted commas wrong always
we've always done that from the from the
court jester had to do that the court
jester could make a little fun of malice
but not too much anybody thinks about
the right thing I just like you know he
make fun of all this guy's too powerful
you know he could crush this off and
that guy would be laughing as long as
the kids laughing it's okay and you
learn that it went on the streets when
you're a kid that's right he's the
bigger kid like doing jokes like oh he
beat up a nun
he would laugh at that yeah you couldn't
attack his weakness right kill it the
mental agility that is required to
execute this job is an essential part of
it possibly one second me now I just
want to make it clear here though
there's one thing to say the court
jester can't question the power to
directly or they'll get their head
chopped off right like the good court
jester was actually mocking the king and
the king did wasn't aware of it you were
actually working on two levels
right that's what good comedy does works
on multiple levels but I understand when
we talk about mocking trans people or
mocking gay people or mocking people
because you know based on race or
whatnot you're not you're not
challenging the power understand that
but nevertheless continued Ron
bennington is the third mic there by the
way comedian okay this job is an
essential part of it people are
comedians complaining oh I can't do this
joke now because so-and-so is gonna be
offended that's right you can't
so do it another joke we'll find another
way around it it was a different word
it's like slalom skiing you have to make
the gate Aika
I sort of do a different way because I
mean I know you've been quoting I don't
know if it's true you say I don't want
to play colleges anymore because they're
too PC and they stop with that that's
not true no it's not true right so
amazing though makes that guy good I'm
glad he's not true I said it in the
times I had an interview in The New York
Times last week and the guy asked me
about it can we please put this to rest
I never said it here's what I said a
comedian told me he doesn't want to play
colleges in him right that's what I said
right that might make me wanna play
colleges if someone says they won't
you'll start yeah when am I on wait am I
on yeah I mean the problem is that you
followed up as if that was backing up
your claim that these kids just want to
say sexism all the time maybe you know
look there's there's no doubt that among
the youth and I would say you know it's
probably true and the younger you get
that their understanding of this stuff
is less sophisticated than somebody
who's like you know 25 or 30 but that's
true of everything right
whether it's Donald Trump is bad
president or or nutrition or whatever it
is yes
children kids college students have a
less developed sense of things broadly
speaking generally than older people
that's the profundity are you just
resenting that in their hands these
ideas become out of control LLL live I
promise you you're gonna be fine that is
the best case scenario I mean sort of
like what Diane Feinstein said to those
kids who came in about climate change -
I mean jesters probably had a lot of
leeway to make jokes about peasants Brie
yeah lotta leeway lotta the people are
complaining about the jesters making the
jokes of the peasants they're just like
throwing stuff around like exploitation
and words like that they just like to
say it you're exploiting the peasants
versus a black dator one plague they
don't even know what exploitation
