we see particularly in the past couple
weeks with Christian Nielsen being
jettison from the DHS in fact a lot of
folks being jettison from the DHS
horrible people I hope they never get
hired again anywhere frankly they they
did not exactly address themselves in
honor and in their their their term
there but clearly there's a
consolidation going on give us your take
on what's happening there because I know
you also have been writing about that
this stuff is not just sort of knee-jerk
Donald Trump wandering the halls there's
a there's a specific strategy behind
there but but before you get to that
give us your take on this consolidation
well it's an interesting story
you know the Trump there's this purge of
the Department of Homeland Security and
also the head of the Secret Service and
some other sort of rather dramatic
actions on the part of Trump around
border security around the border issues
in general and immigration and
specifically asylum which you know it's
kind of the the part of it that you know
Trump has taken to a new level more than
any other president even even the
hardcore Pat Buchanan types you know
from the past hardly went there and he
is doing that and it's largely because
there really is an influx of immigrants
seeking asylum at the border just in the
past year and it's becoming more of an
acute problem to try and deal with it
you know a normal person might just hire
a lot more immigration judges to perhaps
process these people online but that is
of course goes against everything Trump
and his his base believe should be
happening which is that they shouldn't
be allowed essentially they shouldn't be
allowed to claim asylum in the United
States despite the fact that this is
international law you know all over the
world and we signed a gazillion to US
law do ya and US law and you know I mean
this is this is you know there's nothing
unusual about you know asylum seekers
coming you know a theist fleeing their
country it
they're in danger and you know going to
another country and asking for asylum I
mean it's not the first time it's
happened here or anywhere else in the
world but you know for Trump but we know
this because of his you know he ran on
this issue he ran on you know xenophobia
generally speaking his his attitude
toward Muslims was just as as ugly as
his attitude toward the Latinos that
were coming across the border the
southern border so this is a big issue
for him I you know part of it I think
it's true that part of it is a
distraction he's he's wants to in the in
the wake of the you know supposed
exoneration of the bar letter he
immediately launched into this and you
know bit sort of flexing his muscles and
saying okay now I'm taking charge that
whole thing is over that wasn't true but
that was part of it it was all it's also
true that Trump just has a visceral
feeling about this he hits his it's his
you know a true belief of his he's not
just cynically doing this for his base
but there is also a real political
strategy underlying this and I'm sure
that the strategists his pollsters and
various professionals who are talking to
him about 2020 are also pushing him to
do this I mean for a couple of reasons
one it was his big promise and it's
gotten worse at the border rather than
better he has not been able to get his
wall so they're pushing him to do other
things to prove that he is capable of
dealing with the big you know issue that
he ran on but I mean is this okay so I
mean this is a strategy like the I mean
I follow the news quite uh you know
closely the it seems to me that do we
know that there's you know more folks
coming to the border because because
they're talking about it so much and a
and B we also know that there's more
people coming to the border because of
their actions you know it's the
functional equivalent of of people
saying that mortgage rates are gonna go
up and then all of a sudden what you do
is you get a lot of buyers come running
out because they want to get in before
the mortgage rates and so you know Trump
is out there
in fact it seems to me that asylum
seekers the only ones who are believing
the rhetoric that it's possible to build
a wall right like there's there's
there's a lot of places where you can't
even physically build it because of the
nature of of the attempted never aside
from the fact that we wouldn't want to
build the wall and that this is what the
people who make money off of bringing
people up to the border you know are
using to basically it's a sales pitch so
in some ways they're to the extent that
there is any increase in folks who are
headed to the to the wall there they're
encouraging it I mean I think a lot of
it also has to do with like we're at I
don't know that we're at the peak
hopefully we're at the peak but the
level of violence that's taking place
now in places like Honduras and
Nicaragua and El Salvador I mean there
was reports two weeks ago that police in
El Salvador were fleeing the country
because they were afraid of the violence
the police beat the policemen and so I
mean this is obviously there's there's
huge problems there and this idea of
like this administrative actions on
tightening you know bail for asylum
seekers I mean this is do you think cop
aid
I mean cutting off aid Tivat to those
countries I mean that's one thing that
that would truly be helpful would be
really you know invest oh definitely in
in trying to solve help that those
countries solve the problems that are
driving people out instead Trump is
taking punitive measures demanding that
they stop people from emigrating I don't
know what he means by that but I'm
assuming he thinks maybe they should
build a wall and keep people in or
something I mean it makes no sense and
and you know basically saying that that
you know he's withdrawing foreign aid
and you know then he's gonna ship the
you know assylum seekers to sanctuary
cities I mean all of this I mean it
sounds kind of crazy but I wanted to
mention that there is an actual reason
for this and it was there's an analysis
by Ron Brown
well hold on Digby let's take a break
here well let's get to that analysis on
the other side no no we'll get to the
we're gonna we're up against a break
here when we come back let's talk about
the reasons why they're doing this
because to me it seems completely
bewildering they are making they are
they are they are starting with a
limited number of people and they just
seem to be basically letting these
supporters drag them down in a way that
doesn't seem necessary we if there is a
cohort in American politics that does
not care what Donald Trump will do and
will still support them it's as
supporters like I'd like they didn't
even need a return on anything it seems
to me but we got to take a quick break
when we come back we'll be talking to
Digby more about this why why is the
Trump administration convinced that this
small-bore almost sadistic acts against
immigrants and asylum seekers is going
to be an effective electoral strategy we
got to take a quick break we'll be right
back when your fire radio
