[Music]
let's actually go to the candice owens
hearing and we're gonna have a little
bit of a sort of couplet of it by the
way apparently ted Lieu ruined all of
his good work by retweeting dead David
Rubin dave rubin just stay out of it Ted
yes Ted stop being a nice guy just as
they did two engagements to the likes
and the retweets I think that's exactly
right
so this is Candace Owens just sort of
casually contradicting all of modern
political history
I'll give her credit unlike Dave she
knows what the Southern Strategy is I am
profoundly confident and this is I don't
think that this is like worth asking but
if you just said like hey Dave what's
the Southern Strategy he blew that and
ideas describe what that is and what
hate that you've experienced as a result
of your position on that I launched a
movement called blech sit which is the
black exit from a Democrat Party when I
became educated about the issues and
stopped reacting emotionally which is
what the left wants us to do presumably
when they hold up pictures of burning
churches I began to examine the facts
and and look at some of the narratives
they were spinning for example in 2016
it was police brutality and I realized
that they are dissuading us against our
own best interests and I wanted to have
a more productive dialogue with the
black community about the issues that
are actually affecting us and impacting
us when I announced that I was a
conservative I've never seen anything
more racist more disgusting more
vitriolic and more heat that's coming
away my entire life and the things that
Democrats and the media say about me
today I've been referred to as an Uncle
Tom a bed wench for those you that don't
know that means a slave that sleeps with
the master a house naked and
these are all words that have been said
over and over again about black
conservatives we have the audacity to
think for themselves become educated
about our history and the myth of things
like the southern switch and the
Southern Strategy which never happened
okay so obviously there's a lot of drama
and self victimization there ironically
but the southern switch or the southern
oh gee is a very well-documented thing
and it is a historical reality that when
Lyndon Johnson signed the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 that those who were in the
Dixiecrat wing of the Democratic Party
switched and migrated to the Republican
Party and a new coalition was built on
that basis and in fact accelerated in
the 1980s there was a notion under Nixon
that you would sort of have this white
ethnic appeal fueled with some southern
resentment without a doubt but this sort
of like fuller blossoming and in
circulation of that full sort of
apartheid southern politics actually
really culminates and still exists today
obviously in the Trump White House but
it's reaching its fruition in the Reagan
and Bush era Lee Atwater was the most
important Republican strategist of the
1980s here he is in a picture with Roger
stone and Paul Manafort these guys were
the three of the top strategist and
Reagan's Washington this is Lee Atwater
this is adjacent this is the campaign
ground level stuff how this stuff
actually works in terms of reality
now what voters and what now it's not to
say that there aren't voters who vote
Democrat that whole racist attitudes of
course but what base of people are you
appealing to with this strategy and
rhetoric and where did their political
home migrate from you start out of 1954
by saying by 1968
keep saying for that hurts your back
Plus steaks lights and all that stuff
and you're getting so abstract now
you're talking about cutting taxes and
all of these things you're talking about
a totally economic things in the
byproduct top of the maize flax get hurt
worse than what and subconsciously maybe
that is part of it I'm not saying it but
I'm saying that if it is getting that
abstract and that coated that we're
doing away with the racial problem one
way or the other
you follow me because obviously sitting
around saying we want to cut taxes we
want to cut this and one is much more
abstracted than even the busing thing
[Music]
and a hell lat more abstracted never do
you know so anyway you look at it rice
is coming on the backbone the only
difference now in the era that Candis
Owens is so bummed out about being a
propagandist for white nationalist
forces in is that we're getting closer
back to the first phase that Lee Atwater
is talking about we got a memo here for
Nixon from former Thurman aide Strom
Thurmond aide Harry dent the memo is
entitled re Southern Strategy and the
Northeast so already on the myth back in
1969 as deep the kind the kind
attentions of this administration toward
the south have been paying off by
creating a good atmosphere for further
growth and development of the two-party
system there by diminishing the strength
of George Wallace and by bringing a good
measure of cooperation from Southern
Chairman and other Southern Democrats on
Capitol Hill George Wallace he was like
a white supremacist George Wallace was
running to the right of Nixon as an arch
segregationist which gave Nixon room to
triangulate and appeal to basically
people that didn't want to totally
jettison the Democratic Party or rather
mainstream politics basically in the
south and get appealed to by Nixon and
then Nixon could hold you know basically
he could hold it just really quick it's
in the Nixon move he actually says it's
fictionalized where he's meeting with
these oil barons and they're complaining
about some of Nixon's liberal reforms
and he's like fine take your money out
and go for Wallace and let George
McGovern get elected president and then
your kids will go to school of black
people the memo continues evidently this
is not heard elsewhere as per the New
Jersey election of Kevin Phillips
analysis which shows Cahill put together
the Nixon a wallace vote plus some
Humphrey South American vote to win big
but nevertheless we must cope with the
feeling the press Democrats and some
Republicans have created to the effect
that we are less interested in the
Northeast there we go
Hayes gets out this too in his book and
Moore's extended look into the Southern
Strategy starting in the north in the
Bronx with Northeastern Republicans the
Southern Strategy is not just the
geography it's a state of mind the
southern ization of national politics
its
racial demagoguery strategy just the
fact that she was invited to talk about
this at a hearing on white nationalism
is like insane pollen like there are not
two sides to the question is white
nationalism real absolutely and the idea
that she's an expert that should be
wasting Congress sorry for
swearing but Congress is time especially
like next to people I don't know if
we'll get to him today but people who
lost children from like well let's get
to that yeah let's do that because that
is like fundamentally disgusting and
offensive wit number is it on okay this
is house number four so also at the
hearing is dr. Mohammed Abdullah Saleh
who recounts how in 2015 two of his
daughters and his son-in-law were shot
execution-style in North Carolina now
just contrast this man his experience
with the you know grotesque Craven
cynicism we've just seen mr. chairman
state members of Congress and ladies and
gentlemen February 10 2015 that was the
day our lives changed forever
when my two daughters your servant Reza
and my son-in-law diya were shot to
death execution-style in near 70th home
in Chapel Hill we arrived at the scene
yellow tape and flashing lights froze
the blood in our veins we have waited
almost six hours before police officers
confirmed that the arizona roseanne were
all a little bit shot to death and a
desperate attempt to make it bearable an
officer whispered on our coat they
didn't suffer it was one it was swift it
was one shot to the back of the head
well his statement did not make it any
bearable any more bearable and nothing
did news about their death spread over
the internet and media over the globe or
we never heard in the media that the
murderer hated them trouble began when
this man observed my two daughters
appearing on the scene adorned with
their hijabs I remember my user telling
this condescending man told her he hated
how she looked and dressed he made it
very clear to my children that they were
not welcome in their own neighborhood I
must be one of the few physicians it's
not the only one who read his own
children's murder autopsy reports in
details
they are seared into my memory bullets
macerated userland Roseanne's rains Lea
took many bullets to the arms and chest
before he fell down to the ground and
after that the murderer saw that he was
still breathing and shot him again in
the mouth last time we saw them in their
coffins users forehead was bulging and
her hazel eyes had turned gray and
lifeless
I was once resins warm a smiling face
filled with life was now lifeless stone
cold and deadly pale Leah's face lacked
expression and he had a broken tooth
from that final shot to the mouth thank
you for giving me this opportunity to
testify before you but I want you to
remember more than their deaths I want
you to know who they were and what we
have lost Hewson was a vibrant 21 year
old woman who always found ways to give
to others in every aspect of her life
from volunteering at a dental clinic for
Syrian refugees in Turkey to feeding the
homeless in downtown Raleigh and
building houses for Habitat for Humanity
she graduated from NC State University I
was accepted at USC School of Dentistry
to be with the love of her life dear
resin was 19 years old and was so full
of life she was a gentle soul generous
giver talented artist a photographer
resin was a freshman at NC State
University's School of Design and
aspired to be an architect during her
freshman year she mentored a new she
mentored and taught youth and she led
project downtown feeding the homeless in
Raleigh and Durham with meals tacked
with inspirational and personalized
notes I don't I don't have anything I'll
just add a mark Klein was there to speak
presumably
invited by the Republicans
say about how the real thing we need to
focus on is Muslim anti-semitism and
literally ask that man does the Quran
really not teach Islamic people to hate
Jews or does Islam not really teaching
yes that man gave that testimony yeah
that's the word disgusting
disgusting I'm looking for video for
that so that is so obscene
