this dennis prager sake Jesus Christ
didn't chapo do a good bit with dennis
prager where they played like Marvin
Gaye in the background and just did a
breakdown at house and as Dennis Prager
is basically like the horniest guy on
the planet
so also tax deductible dennis prager
he's taxed that this you is
tax deductible Prager you is propaganda
YouTube series 2 seed anti science
corporate exploitation and bigotry so
history whitewashing operation be a
federally credited institution I'm
joking but I hope I mean we're probably
yeah Dennis is doing a great job by the
way a Jew so not a fun one if you're if
you're a rich you can lower your
tax liabilities by giving money to this
guy can't wait to take Owen Benjamin's
class on the social implications of
using bad language oh yeah those dull
and Benjamin videos
he knows the social implications of that
definitely not as strong as the Sam
Harris material which was actually
pretty funny so this is a so ok let me
set this up a little bit say you watched
Tucker Carlson every night and you're
enraged because there's roving immigrant
hordes and Tucker has you all worked up
into a paranoid bigoted lather and he's
saying like and you're all upset and the
country's going to hell even though your
party controls all three branches of
government and your immediate life has
actually totally secure cushy and
protected in fact you couldn't have an
easier life but your blood pressure is
high you're taking all these medications
you're depressed you're angry and you're
irrationally afraid and terrified which
is why you even have to be thinking
about gypsies for God's sake which
everybody should always remember that
was literally a Tucker Carlson segment
was on the gypsies speaking of some of
the red
TRO flavor of flavors of modern
right-wing politics so you have all this
tension built up and say you're married
presumably in a very loveless marriage
and you you sort of work your way off of
the couch there's a Hannity commercial
break here about to come back on and
figure out what you know the the new
Clinton Soros planned with the deep
state is and you got about 20 seconds in
you to relieve yourself of your earthly
burdens in your wife and she doesn't
want to because for probably endless
number of obvious reasons she is not in
the mood well Dennis Prager is here to
help you and he's on his old buddy
Tucker's Network to tell this audience
and explain Dennis Prager is new when
woman when a woman isn't in the mood
series simply offered the advice to a
woman if you love your husband and he is
a good man then don't let mood alone
determine whether or not you'll have sex
with him because it's an important thing
to him so give it a try I don't want to
jump in but it's my wife so it's truly
helpful so here's the terrible part I
think me established that dude but it's
just so creepy because it's like I don't
know I don't know just a batch branding
this it's three speeches under threat on
college campuses and like knock your
husband's for God's sake not to state
the obvious but women often do do that a
lot of the time and you know what it's
none of his business
come on come on there's a little bit
left of this you love horrible of me and
I'm a good man no here's the terrible
part the in in Huffington Post just two
weeks ago a guy cited this from 10 years
ago Prager advocates marital rape and
that's what they wrote in the in the
Colorado State University the guy beware
a guy who believes in marital rape is
coming to camp that's disgusting
yes you know can we just have a
freeze-frame on his face right after
Tucker says that's disgusting kind of
just out of can we just have a clip of
cragars face like that that is
disgusting that's the take my marital
advice from right there it sort of
sounds like he's making a bit of a early
apology for a potential marital rape
like I said that ahead of this divorce
yeah like think about more than your
mood think about like you might get
raped in the future I mean that's
literally what he's I think implying
there
well it's blaming the it's blaming the
wife if she doesn't like control her
husband's drives but it's also like it's
so it's so insidious cuz I don't know
like if you read like a like some type
of like you know psychology book on like
negotiating a relationship which I am
not ashamed to admit that I have half
done and I failed but they're like what
I'm saying is he's picking up on things
that you might read in like an actual
serious book like hey if you're in a
relationship you need to negotiate
boundaries together you need to
negotiate like all sorts of arrangements
of how you spend time together how
people want to you know touch each other
and everything else right and he's using
this and then he's turning it into a
misogynist attack on women and then
basically subtextual e by connecting it
with campus stuff making this like
attempting to make this like much
broader indictment of essentially just
progress I don't know if what I'm saying
makes sense but it's just like
these guys are so masterful at taking
things that could be like a conversation
in one domain and then weaponizing it
because all they're like this broader
like attack all they care about is not
the conversation but what the
conversation accomplishes right so it's
like we said it's why you have like
Jacob wall trying to do this Robert
Moeller rape accuser thing right because
they he sees and from his perspective
he's dumb enough to believe that most of
these accusations against say Cavanaugh
were faked and made by the Democrats and
so they're like well you did that to do
this I want to do that too right I think
that's exactly it
I think it's exactly I would say it's
nauseating but if you look on YouTube
the chop a bit about Dennis Prager just
being hopelessly horny and harassing his
wife and the idea of reading
Praeger passages underneath Marvin Gaye
is I mean that's sort of like the poles
of human experience right like from the
highest to the lowest depths right there
yeah that is just a real it it really it
seems to speak to a certain subsection
of like maybe the men's rights people oh
yeah I think he's I think because their
model for uh something sexy and healthy
is not something that's actually sexy
and healthy right it's not like I don't
know John Legend and Chrissy Teigen
she's a supermodel
he's like good-looking guy they have a
egalitarian relationship no he's like a
 to them their model for who's the
man is Donald Trump right because
they don't care they don't care about
the woman's experience of any of this
they care about having power over
another human being so like they can
look at Donald Trump and like his wife
is clearly disgusted by him like but
like visibly disgusted yeah and she's a
disgusting person so that says a lot
that's he's the man I would love to see
Dennis Prager
all John Legend a cook that means very
good well stay tuned like in person if
you can talking like on a Praeger you
video if you come from the school that
considers a wife as an asset like the
cook school of outright does right then
being told that your wife your asset
doesn't have to obey your commands makes
your asset less valuable to you right
yeah that's a seeing other human beings
is being instrumental to their idea of
being the man which is also why they
like Hugh Hefner I think because like do
you think that Hugh Hefner's girlfriends
are all like in love with him probably
not well I mean he's dead probably not
well in the in the Hugh Hefner imaginary
let's say because he lives on it's
spirit here
unfortunately he very much does and it's
more about having like money and power
over women than it is about having like
a real two sided relationship with
another human being yeah yeah that's
Chris
