in honor of the fact that we'll be
having one of the first sort of
scheduled libertarian debates that we've
had in a while in December I give you a
Utah Senate Senator Mike Lee now here's
the thing now that there is and we will
find out there's a runoff election in is
it Mississippi Mike sb and I can't
remember the Republic Cindy hyde-smith
who has a real affinity for talking
about lynchings and whatnots hangings
public hangings but as it stands now
with Bill Nelson having conceded this
weekend in Florida Republicans have a I
think of 52 53 to 47 advantage 53 to 47
advantage or I should say 52 to 47
advantage it could end up being 53 I
think with this one in Tennessee but who
knows it could go the other way a guy
like Mike Lee it gives him a little bit
more breathing room to to strut a little
bit of his libertarian ideals because as
you know people's vote becomes less
crucial they can brand themselves a
little bit more right susan collins is
released she can pretend that she cares
about a woman's right to choose more now
than she did when it she was absolutely
needed for a vote on Kavanagh so here is
Mike Lee giving a speech to the
Federalist Society this is the ones that
developed guys like Kavanagh is the one
who asked the moms yeah ask the moms
here he is talking about how the left is
going to start a civil war in this
country unless they give up things like
a federally mandated highway system or
other functions of our government
according to any reasonable measuring
the dysfunctional status quo is
unsustainable even in good times like
those we're experiencing right now it's
driving our government toward insolvency
in our politics toward violence
realistically pause it
I know people get annoyed when I
interrupt sometimes these videos but our
government does not have the ability to
be insolvent you understand that right
our government does not have the
inability to be insolvent unless it
decides it wants to be insolvent we have
the ability to print money we have the
largest or I should say the most
meaningful economy in the world
obviously China is very important as
well but our currency essentially works
all around the world we have a very
robust economy we have the ability to
print our own money we also have the
ability to tax people it is impossible
for the government of the United States
to be insolvent but continue
realistically Americans have two options
either we're going to once again embrace
the Constitution's vision of a diverse
tolerant pluralistic union of states and
of communities each governed according
to the values and priorities of its own
citizens or this fundamentally
unamerican contest one recklessly
designed to determine which half of our
nation will have the power at least
temporarily to unilaterally impose its
will and its values on the other half
will escalate violently out of control
pause it I want you to understand how
nuts of what he's talking about is first
of all it is completely an American
concept like the Constitution suggests
that Congress right will control things
like commerce interstate commerce and
has responsibility for the general
welfare Michael II doesn't I don't think
I have a problem with immigration for
the feds doing immigration either but
continue let's just listen to this
absurdity he wants us to go back to an
era let's say where states could say
come up with their own voting raw laws
about who can and cannot vote based on
things let's say like by race or by a
poll tax or a literacy test right or
maybe even who can and cannot own slaves
also they don't have half of the country
on their side it's not half-and-half
this isn't half split popular wide
popularity wise he's saying that the
majority will impose its will on the the
rest of the country but yes in terms of
population that's right but continued
control ultimately this will come down
to a binary choice a simple binary
choice federalism or violence many on
the Left don't seem too concerned about
any of this they believe demographic and
historic trends coupled with what many
see is the inherent rightness of their
leftist cause make their ultimate
victory over red America inevitable and
morally justifiable they believe every
lever of federal power will one day soon
and permanently be in their hands they
are content with non-stop political
total war because they're sure they're
going to win it blind to the fact that
such a victory would come at the expense
of the American experiment itself posit
now just understand what he said this is
the threat this is a threat because a
Cession threat it's it's no it is a
civil war threat right I mean he says we
have two choices one is to embrace the
system of government the neo Confederate
as
essentially policies of allowing the
states to function as completely
autonomous fiefdom
or there's gonna be violence that's the
choices that we have America according
to this senator unless we're until this
changes unless were until we change this
it therefore falls to conservatives to
chart a new course not simply to turn
away from disaster but to turn America
toward something better toward a
genuinely happy and sustainable future
one of tolerance and diversity of
viewpoint that's it there's my diversity
of viewpoint either you start letting
States discriminate and create a race to
the bottom in terms of protections for
consumers and workers and citizens
there's going to be violence let's hear
more of this lunatics ravings the
low-hanging fruit is obvious the
interstate highway system K through 12
public education the federal higher
education accreditation cartel early
childhood at education the Department of
Commerce the huge glut of federally
owned land and real estate Housing
Policy workforce regulation fees and the
knotty interconnected problems of where
welfare dependence and health care would
all be more easily untied if 50 diverse
and motivated states we're working on
them fifty diverse states where by the
way populations dispersed differently
health care is provided differently in
each locality and each state has more of
an ability to decide what solutions will
most benefit their respective
populations in Washington because I want
you understand what he's saying here
he's saying get rid of things like the
high like federal highways which connect
people
now I don't know if he's talking about
on a practical level or on some like
misunderstanding of the Constitution
right but just imagine you could have
completely different standards in the 50
states across the country for the
highways for the highways that connect
them those Wisconsin cheese highways I
think would be pretty cool and and all
the diversity that it represents you
know folks people who live in Wyoming
they're their health care could be
radically different then the health care
of people let's say in New Jersey
because in Wyoming they have two hearts
and every human being what's funny of
course is the idea that he'll also say
like would you let health insurance
companies sell across state lines to
increase efficiency in competition now a
it's funny because they already can do
that but be they seem to understand the
concept of size and risk pools cutting
costs I mean heck how is it that walmart
manages to sell their stuff in Michigan
and in let's say Georgia how do they do
that it's not oh I know how they do it
through the federal highway system
continue on Washington because of
America's deep red blue divide these are
very controversial issues they're less
so within our increasingly dark red and
dark blue states when there is no
national consensus or federal imperative
there should not be federal law
especially if there is a greater degree
of consensus within each state hmm if
everybody in my state agrees that we
should have segregated water fountains
what business is it of the federal
government to tell us that we can't
I think is what I mean that's the
conversation we would have been having
50 years ago I they're always afraid of
tyranny of the majority except at the
state level where it becomes more acute
right then the tyranny of the majority
is only so it's done by the state that
is the perfect unit or really the county
I mean why not the county why shouldn't
we do this by the county or what about
municipalities like if that theory works
so well about the states why wouldn't we
just do this down to the neighborhood I
should be able to control my own home
Sam well I mean honestly like what it's
completely arbitrary it's completely
arbitrary just based upon and this is
what the this is what libertarianism
seems to always boil down to we're going
to reduce or we're going to land on a
idea of government and the most
appropriate size of government that
maintains the order of power that I
benefit from tends to be the really the
operating principle of libertarianism
but we will have more time to discuss
that in the future indeed like these
guys are basically make a setting out to
make sure democracy can to overrule
capital and property that's right and
we're just gonna find the the proper
size of government that is going to
allow for you know we just need we just
need one or two places to be the drain
so that everything flows down
essentially from there
