[Music]
this video is incredible somebody
tweeted it at me
and they said something the effect of
check out dave rubin doing an impression
of you doing an impression of dave rubin
now as always i got to give my Christine
props he's sort of a major innovator
he's like Prometheus of the day right he
got he nailed it he definitely took the
like essence Dave Rubin and and and and
got it across for us but so that's the
like you know my thing and I always go
there clearly I'm interested and ideas
and we yeah but yeah interesting ideas
so what happens in this this clip is
actually genuinely mind-blowing because
apparently I guess it's like Tim Poole
must have been on Dave's show and now
like Dave is is is getting interviewed
by Tim yeah it's like tim was at the
dave rubin estates i don't know where
ever he records it and in a state they
recorded a dave rubin a Reuben riff
night and and then just right after Tim
Poole God is like set up his GoPros or
something and Tim's like who can I turn
the tables on you yeah and they recorded
this and actually to be fair to Tim
Poole who I you know I said wasted a
class period at NYU when he guest
lecturer at class I didn't I still
resent that he kind of grills well yeah
this is what's incredible this is the
set okay so in addition okay everybody
knows but we'll still find anyways you
know how funny you know look of course
Dave Reubens a total idiot right
obviously so that's gonna be funny but
this is also like the second interaction
and this is based on the first
interaction where Joe Rogan who's like
friendly with Dave Rubin just humiliated
him in the infamous Building Code saga
which was immediately following the
infamous sending chickens through the
mail saga
right the chicken chickens through the
male saga so I don't even remember which
came first and that it's a male whole
chicken one chicken or that building
this chicken or the lunch road once
Rogan reminded him that the United
States Postal Service is the only way to
send chickens through the mail oh yeah
oh yeah but what is building yeah I hear
it looks like 70 and the kind of sewer
of ideas so I can quickly pay me to
another example that's kind of negus
maybe not also proved my point
so Tim pool here I gotta say yeah he's
being a little unexpectedly aggressive
like I'm Dave Rubin it's a key I just
gave you free platform and I don't ask
questions why you asked me that we were
homies that we
[Music]
I always think it's like I see these
people that are hating me all the time
and I'm like who what is wrong with you
that you're waking up and you're
thinking oh I got to figure out what
Ruben tweeted today to go after him it's
like listen I'm doing my thing if you
don't like it I said this before but
don't watch it's okay rogon pause one
sir no but it's it's also okay to do
this like it's fun this is the
marketplace of ideas not your place of
ideas Dave Dave like you can go do your
thing and you can you know be a bag man
and idiot for the worst interests in the
world from corporations to oligarchy to
racism I can make funny it's not
personal we're just in isin ideas a
person who just I mean I'm just really
interested in the ideas all right that's
a really disturbing us freeze frame
there Alice keep playing well I always
think it's like I see these people that
are hating me all the time and I'm like
you're waking up and you're thinking oh
I gotta figure out what Ruben tweeted
today to go after him I'm doing my thing
if you don't like it I said this before
but don't watch it's okay you were on
Rogen
one serve three times so there was one
particular incident where Rogan was
asking you about why you believe in less
government control yeah people felt like
you didn't know what you were talking
about that you were advocating for a
position no so this was I think
specifically this is the last time I was
on Rogan and we were talking about
building codes I think was right if ik
part of it yeah oh you mean I kept yeah
yeah
and I said I we were talking about it
was in the framework of talking about
limited government and I said at the
beginning of this this is not like my
particular point of interest like
building codes or even regulations
specifically like the nitty-gritty parts
of regulation that's like talking about
ideas that's what I like talking about
so like that it's a gritty thing about
about building code regulation and I
said something like he could have
private regulation for some of this and
that you'd have an agreement between the
buyer of the house and seller house that
maybe that's not exactly the role for
government but several times in that
okay so this guy is very stupid but I
love is I love the the steps there
because first it's like I would like
hazard a guess that unless there's like
a YouTube channel that's like dedicated
to you know this is how you build a
house there's probably none of us
there's
specifically interested in like building
codes so he like he went from like
really interesting building codes to
then like I'm not interested in
regulation as a category okay like
building codes a pretty specific
technical subset of regulation and the
thing is you kind of are interested in
regulation because you were saying on a
national platform that they were useless
and didn't serve any good and then you
got to the building code part where you
your subset example let's just watch
this anyway
they do they would cut a lot more if
there weren't fix that's the way you get
them done for the US Postal Service I'm
gonna PPS I'm pretty sure though that if
the USPS stopped it didn't exist
anywhere you'd still get chickens
delivered an Amazon it could probably do
it even more effectively that's my point
it's like ah saying these things have
Amazon uses the US Postal Service to
deliver their goods anyways go ahead
it's just just a little eliminated
tomorrow I'm not even like hoping for
them to be eliminated but just generally
what problem would you everything you're
building here right now right do you
want the government to tell you how to
do all these things and all the
regulations that you gotta have your
electric thing this far from this and
like regulations like that for
construction are important though you do
have to make sure that people don't do
stupid but then the power lines
near a water line yeah there's a lot of
but I would put most of that on the
builders though they want to build
things that are good now I get how all
that's not true
listen people people are gonna corners
all the time if you have to have
regulations when it comes to
construction methods or people are gonna
get they cut regulate they cut
corners when there are regulations
anyway they do they would cut a lot more
if there weren't regular not to go to
third world countries and look at
construction methods they're
dangerous
yeah that's why schools collapse on kids
in foreign countries sometimes like well
I'm not complete I'm not telling you
that I'm against all regulation period
that's weird but that's where I said
intellectually I like that argument
because you could make us I think you
can make a very sound argument that
competition would force people to do
better work no to be fair when I hear
that I do think to myself well I mean
this just sounds like a guy
is more ideal that's a blue sky
big-picture thinking right there's
there's two kinds of thinkers there's
the nitty-gritty guys and there's the
idea guys and Dave is purely purely the
latter oh yeah really exalted I think
you can make a pretty strong argument
that what I'm saying is actually not as
dumb as it sounded for the past
government hey idea what if this
actually wasn't me making a complete ass
of myself in front of millions of people
there's one thing I mean think of how
much faster we could build billions if
you didn't care about like you know
putting water lines next to outlets and
like you know facets underneath he has
an auntie like like I bet I have been
thought about it but I am sure that if I
wanted to do that job and like be like
I've you know pure hack like that like
you could find like I mean isn't it
ridiculous that like you know I don't
know like you want to open a pizza
parlor and the bathroom needs that you
know well a simple one is you know new
construction shouldn't require a certain
amount of parking space because that's
basically a subsidy to the automobile
engine right right or some or some type
of like exactly or some type of yeah
like you could you could fight and then
it's like he has an anti ear cuz first
he's like it's like a little lake post
office you can get chickens and then
it's like okay well actually no
literally you did get your chickens from
the post office because that's the only
way they're sent by the way the classic
libertarian moved there would have been
like yeah and why I mean I wish I didn't
have the government forced me get my
chickens and you go down some dumb
rabbit hole like that but then he goes
to like buildings and it's like okay
that's an interesting one cuz just even
psych a lot like you're queuing like ha
buildings like unless I'm a complete
like demented dingbat that calls into
like radio shows to like complain that
like water is treated you might
intuitively kind of go to like no that
actually sounds like a place that I kind
of would like a little bit of oversight
on you're on the San Andreas Fault
record in your YouTube show right
yeah just and then and then it's like
and then doesn't he actually literally
himself go to like which was good like
doesn't he actually say that before
Rogan yeah he's like do you want your
electric thing there it's like yes all
of the wrong like he goes to like the
Oh like and that's what leads broke
Rogan can do his whole like no dude
that's actually pretty important
bro when you're getting when you're
getting turned back by Rogan and Tim
pool like that not known for their
incredulity and like you know Jeremy
Paxman type approach to guests you gotta
you might have to look inward yeah turn
to turn the ideas on oneself leave
alright let's take let's take
