Johnny rum or with Sam
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday January 1st 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA ladies and gentlemen we
made it its 2019 we're in the future oh
my god hovercrafts little sliding doors
where the food comes out you press a
button and it makes it look like a
completely synthetic meal if Hyperloop
snow piper loops slash or as they used
to call them subways pneumatic tubes
we've got jetpacks 2019 jet pack you got
a bet
well those ones that you can do on a
lake the lake jetpacks were a base where
was it pretty cool those are pretty cool
oh man 2019 is great so far I'm loving
it it's just food tastes different that
much closer to the climate catastrophe
the new Soylent offerings are good so
good
is he still president I guess I don't
know because we were pre recording this
hope springs eternal folks but we have
our final best of the 2018 year even
though it's 2019 now we're back live
tomorrow hope you had a good New Year's
got a bit of a hangover this is the
perfect hangover interview
because it's just a fascinating piece of
history we had a bit of a historical
theme for the best of this year and I
like it just uh you learn something but
you don't have to you know you're not
disengaging from there all relevant to
what's going on today but you don't have
to hear about that
horrible human being 365 today on the
program we have the author William
Hoagland author of autumn of the black
snake the creation of the US Army and
the invasion that opened the West
fascinating story I love this one I
referenced this book quite a bit I feel
like yeah I referenced all the ones that
we had I think in terms of the best of
this time but this one really stuck with
me alright folks I mean just a reminder
we're gonna we have some some fun 1/2
stuff for you that we're gonna give you
for free today if you want to support
this show go to join the majority report
calm and and do so it is your support
that makes a show possible we will be
back live tomorrow 12:00 noon Eastern
you can listen to us via the app at
majority app comm we got free app for
any type of for iOS or Android we've got
you can watch the show live on on
YouTube and listen to it live on the app
and of course become a member and get
that extra content alright quick break
when we come back
William Hoagland see you tomorrow happy
new
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome William Hoagland he is the
author of the whiskey rebellion founding
finance the Declaration and his latest
is the autumn of the black snake the
origin story of the American military
bill welcome to the program thanks very
much it's great to be here so ok the
your your you're working with a
relatively small amount of time or I
guess is the essence of your book that
is basically the first half of the 1790s
and it is as you set out a a massive
turning point of course is a fairly
nascent United States but a massive
turning point in the trajectory of the
United States what I mean before we get
into the details and some of the
characters that we're talking about why
is that well I think generally the 1790s
is probably seen as a big you know it's
the launch it's the launch moment right
of the nation but what I'm talking about
is surprisingly little-known in that
context which is that one of the great
achievements of the of the Washington
administration and one of the most I
think world-changing achievements was
the establishment of a of a United
States Army although when I say that I
think it's kind of tricky because people
sort of assume there must have always
been an army since there was a nation
formed but there wasn't one and the
formation of that army I think is a huge
benchmark a huge turning of a wheel and
in global history not just US history
and at the same time it's the beginning
of the conquest of the rest of the
continent what became the conquest of
the rest of the continent in that the
first war the United States ever fought
occurred in the first half of the 1790s
and that's that's the way it's the
reason they formed the army and that was
the war to conquer what is now that the
Upper Midwest basically Ohio and etc
which begins an entire change in the
relations of indigenous people and the
United States of
and so forth so all of that seems you
know crucially important to me and
that's why I kind of got into reading
about and reading about it and writing
and writing a book I'm going to resist
the temptation to jump immediately into
the you know which came first to write
the the imperialist I guess the the
imperialist agenda or the war I mean the
the standing army but before we get
there let's let's dig into sort of the
the story because it starts essentially
or maybe this is a little bit too late
in it but it is the st. Clare's defeat
which which which is the I guess the
ostensible impetus but tell us about who
had who who is the argument between
prior to this about whether or not the
United States should have a standing
army and give us a basic outlines of
those arguments there was a strong
feeling among many Americans elite and
ordinary Americans alike that you know
in a kind of government that had just
you know been established the kind of
government that actually the Revolution
had been fought possibly to create a
republican government a representative
government that that that a full-time
professional nationally run sort of
top-down army was just a nassima to all
of those basic republican values i mean
standing army is a term that was used it
was a term of act of act of you know
just abhorrence basically among many of
the Whig thinkers who had who had
created the ideology around American
independence it was the kind of thing
where he's the kind of army that the
King of England had or the king of
France had a professional sort of army
used you know hirelings of the King just
could be turned against the citizenry at
any time you know a sign of tyranny
really that was a pretty widespread
opinion and the idea was then you don't
I know a free people would never have a
standing army a free people would rely
on the you know volunteer obligated
citizens soldier the militia that's a
pretty common theme that still continues
in American debates about about military
actually I mean we still we still
romanticized militia a lot of people in
this country
but there was another point of view and
it was held by some pretty famous people
like George Washington and and Henry
Knox who had who became Secretary of War
and had been Washington's artillery
commander during the Revolution and of
course Alexander Hamilton and others who
had long believed I mean even during the
revolution had just been sort of
horrified by the what they considered
the poor performance of the of the
non-professional forces and really were
pushing for more professionalism even
during the revolution they felt that the
only way to really have an effective
nationhood would be also to have an
effective army and that that army would
have to be run once you have a nation it
would have to be a nationally uniformly
run uniformly you know uniformly clothed
like uniformed and uniformly trained and
so forth army that would be ready to
react to situations not have to be
raised from the public kind of at the
last minute and so forth so that was a
that was a big debate and it was
absolutely not fait accompli politically
speaking that there would ever be the
United States Army
so to achieve one and that's part of
what my books about the Washington
administration had to make some very big
move big moves on the one hand and sort
of backroom moves on the other hand to
get that that done politically well and
unstated in those in those two sides of
the argument is sort of it seems to me
like a third option right where it's
it's not just that we need a standing
army in the event that we have a you
know a sudden need for it it it also and
it's not that we we want a standing army
to be tyrannical to our own population
there's a certain amount of unspoken I
mean I guess the siren colleges think of
me there's a certain there's there he's
was there a a hidden agenda and
expressed agenda of or was it even at
that time even considered an agenda of
imperialism if we're talking about
Native Americans who were you know any
more than you know homesteading or
clearing this field of trees
is-is-is imperialism or thought of as
imperialism I mean was that yeah this is
that's right go ahead I'm sorry I
interrupted you well I think you know
where I'm going with this I mean where's
there was was this a a hidden agenda
was it I mean where did the notion that
we're actually we're not going to use
this army to attack our own people we're
also not just going to use his army in
the event that we're attacked we're
gonna use his army to acquire things
well exactly I mean this is the
interesting thing about the context in
which this debate was sort of taking
place is that there it isn't taking
place in the abstract right like as you
say so rightly it really wasn't a matter
of like let's just wait and see if we're
attacked and make sure we have a good
strong army to defend ourselves the
nation was formed you know things were
ongoing all the time while the nation
was being formed and one of the things
that was ongoing was an effort that had
begun before the Revolution in fact for
an elite group of speculators
in Western land to get a hold of that
land with the purpose of making money so
all of these things are tied up together
in ways that are quite complicated and
in effect the sort of the effect trying
to figure out what to what to what
extent there were agendas and to what
extent those agendas were open in some
cases or hidden in other cases and does
it how it lines up like there's everyone
who was against the standing army was
was everyone to get who was against the
standing army sort of in favor of
leaving the native people alone no they
just thought that militia should take
care of that job of securing the West
you know so it doesn't even break down
anti imperialist anti-militarist
necessarily so your question goes to the
heart really I think of of a number of
fascinating issues that are bound up
together in that moment of forming the
nation where we're already in the
process actually of an imperial
adventure and it was open in the sense
that Washington Jefferson Hamilton
people on various sides of a lot of
political issues all use the term Empire
in a very sort of admiring way to talk
about what the national goals really
were so
Jefferson might call it an empire for
liberty or an empire of Liberty and
Hamilton might think of it as more like
an empire to compete financially with
the British Empire Washington definitely
envisioned Empire and he meant the
pursuit of development real estate
development essentially in the West they
all used the term Empire so in that
sense I would say it wasn't all that
hidden in another sense though when the
when the arguments were taking place
when the debates were taking place they
were often taking place in a less than
candid context as politics being then as
it is now you know you don't always not
always saying what they really mean and
so there was this ongoing sort of
struggle which a lot of people didn't
even want to call a war which was to
pacify they would say the West and make
and be able to use that land and
speculate in that land and make good on
a lot of investment in that Western land
so your question goes to the heart of a
very important that this is what I think
is so important about about this this
moment actually because we often think
of imperialism as beginning sort of at
the end of the 19th century when we went
sort of off our neck away from our
natural boundaries and started expanding
you know beyond the continent but of
course in fact expansion beyond into the
wet what was called the West and
expansion beyond the Ohio River was a
with a basic cause of it was one of the
causes of forming a nation that had
indeed been one of the causes of
fighting the revolution so that
expansionist mentality was actually very
cooked very deeply into the original
ideas of the Republican nation that this
nation was becoming even as it began I
mean I guess maybe the initial founders
of the state or there those who landed
on Plymouth Rock were not necessarily
seeking to expand you know seeking out
resources to to ship across the ocean
but certainly the resources that
followed were a function of that and so
in some ways I guess this sort of like
this this imperialist drive was
inherited in
yeah and again that's very interesting I
mean I you're right - the book focuses
its main action focuses in the first
half of the 1790s but in order to sort
of bring that those impulses that I'm
describing to life you have to look a
little further back and in the in the
book I don't look all the way back to
the immediate to the absolute origin of
you know contact and first white
settlement but I do look back to the
formation of what was called the Ohio
company of Virginia by a bunch of
Virginia speculators who were George
Washington's older brothers and their
and their friends and family connections
and you do see this I mean you know some
of its regional like Virginians were
very interested in this and many
Pennsylvanians were very interested in
this and it's not as if New Englanders
weren't interested but a lot of the
impulse behind this kind of expansionism
seems to be the most successful I should
say I guess come comes out of Virginians
and Pennsylvanians so you know there
were many many different sort of
contributing factors to original
European settlement and appropriation of
land on this continent but one of those
one of those threads and it's the thread
that led the reason it's important is it
led very maybe in a convoluted way I was
going to say very directly maybe in a
convoluted way but nonetheless in
inexorably led toward the formation of a
military military nation-state here
comes out of this desire for speculation
land speculation and land development
west of the Ohio West the first west of
the Alleghenies and then west of the
Ohio River alright well let's let's
follow the money
if we could but before we do why why do
you think Virginia and Pennsylvania I
mean or is that if I ask the same two
questions well yeah that's a really good
question I mean one of the things you
mentioned my earlier books when you were
introducing me
much appreciated one of them is called
declaration and in writing this new book
autumn of the black snake I realized
that I kind of blown an opportunity in
declaration to look at both the New
England side and the Virginia side in
more detail I gave a lot of attention in
that book - how Englanders kind of
overthrew
the pennsylvania government in an effort
to bring about the declaration of
independence but the co and I mentioned
the collaboration with Virginia which
was very important that New England and
Virginia collaborated there but but I
feel like the agendas there were
somewhat different and where a Samuel
Adams there were New Englanders who were
of course invested in Western land but
whereas Samuel Adams wanted to form a
kind of revived New England and a kind
of what he called a Christian Sparta and
make make a kind of virtuous sort of
almost back to the Puritan kind of
mentality in New England he was
collaborating with Virginians who were
really interested in something
completely different had no interest in
a Christian Sparta but we're trying to
get land policy in Virginia kind of into
their own hands and what drives those
two things is a very interesting
question I mean I'm not going to say
that the New Englanders were free of
we're free of their own forms of does a
deep desire to get ahead I mean we know
about John Hancock and the Hancock
family and actually the Adams family as
well you know the Samuel Adams family
and they were definitely business
oriented people trying to get ahead this
drive to the West I think comes partly
out of understanding that that tobacco
which did not of course become the King
crop of America but it looked at the
time it was the king crop of America
that the Virginia tobacco planters in
particular became aware that tobacco
just destroys the soil in which it's
grown and they just knew that there was
going to be an endless need for more and
more new fertile land land that hadn't
been tapped for that kind of destruction
so I think that was one of the main
impulses and I think the Virginians just
had a earlier sense of the potential you
know bonanzas to be made not only in
tobacco but in the land on which tobacco
could someday be grown it's it's eerie
to contemplate that sort of attitude
towards tobacco by the tobacco producers
at that time because it's that that
attitude seem pretty durable
yeah yeah it's true all right well let's
I mean let's talk about let's let's
follow some of that money
I mean in terms of that argument about a
standing army or not those who are
arguing for it particularly Washington
and in Hamilton they and I think you've
evolved nearly alluded to it but had
some interests in the idea of an
expansive America
yeah strong interest and I thought I
don't think that I mean just from
Hamilton's point of view for example
since Hamilton is is so talked about
right now I think it's important to keep
in mind that is is really comprehensive
and very ambitious sort of vaulting
vision of what the United States could
be involved a kind of a kind of meeting
between high finance you know high
finance elite money yoked to national
purposes combined with expansion managed
from the top down federally managed
expansion into those valuable areas
speculation in western land and the
development of Western land combined
with a strong very strong military
military presence so that was really
like his vision was really kind of
comprehensive in that way and it's it's
you know it's kind of how many people in
the 18th century who were interested in
nation and I think would have conceived
of just simply what a nation is what a
nation state would be it would have you
know it would be a concentration of
wealth yoked to a concentration of
military power with a kind of
expansionist a kind of greater
nationhood mentality I mean I don't
think it makes the United States unique
it's just very interesting that there
was also pushback against that that idea
and it's also very interesting that you
you get into an issue around like well
what is what are the legitimate
boundaries of the United States when
you're talking about indigenous people
already living in those places where
that speculation was going on but
certainly Hamilton's vision and he was
certainly not alone either he was joined
by Washington who had a direct personal
financial interest in that region as did
so many others
the of the elites in the founding
generation they they really couldn't
have imagined I think a United States
pinned behind you know east of the
mountains never to expand never to grow
I think that would be almost
unimaginable to them as the United
States so they that was how they looked
at it and to go to get what they needed
to do that they had to have an army and
they had to conquer they had to actually
conquer that area well I mean when when
you lay out
Hamilton's vision it doesn't seem
terribly different than what a monarchs
country would look like at that time I
guess there's only the difference that
theoretically there's more democracy in
that right I guess I mean the difference
would be in how they come to decide to
arrive at that same sort of disposition
yeah I see what you're saying I mean I
think that's really interesting the way
to put it I don't I wouldn't say that
that Hamilton would have looked at you
know because we have a different kind of
government here that is not a man
article government or even a king in
Parliament as in the English government
at that time or whatever because we're
not doing it that way ergo we won't be
expansionist so that wouldn't that was
not an equation that would have made any
sense to him or many of the other people
of his of his type who thought the way
he did it wasn't necessarily in any way
follow in the way Hamilton thought of
these things that because we have a
republic therefore we wouldn't be
expansionist and I think he had some
good I think he had some good historical
back back up for that I mean we this
gets into some very interesting things
that I think Americans argue about you
know today which is which has to do with
like what's the legitimate what is
legitimate you know use of influence
beyond your borders and to what extent
is it imperialist into what extent is it
or isn't it imperialist and so forth
because it's it's these guys the
founding generation had as one of their
examples of course the Roman Empire and
they were extremely immersed in
classical reading and those who really
were those who were anti
imperialist sort of had an idea that you
know you that empire that that an
emperor a monarch type is always going
to want to be militaristic and expansive
and some had the idea I think we inherit
this this sort of delusion that if you
have a republican government as in the
earlier roman government the one that
was pre pre imperial they sort of lean
mean virtuous republic idea that it's
not an expansionist that it doesn't have
an expansionist or militaristic
component but that wasn't really true
about rome itself let alone the united
states it's more like you're always
expanding the question is do you have a
dictator at the top or do you have a
more republican approach to who's
running it but expansionism doesn't live
or die necessarily on whether there's an
emperor or an elected or an elected
government well I would I mean what
would the was the perception that it's
not expansionist if everybody agrees to
do it or I mean I don't how do you how
do you come to that reading of I guess I
would say this I don't think it's that I
don't think you wouldn't call it not
expansionist you just wouldn't call it
unruhe publican to expand right you know
that's my me and I I think that that's
that's the way Rome I mean Rome did
plenty of expanding during its
Republican era to I don't think they
looked at it that way I guess were those
who were concerned with a standing army
did they have concerns did they have and
maybe they wouldn't have articulated
this way an anti-imperialist perspective
maybe it would have been more like if
you if you if you have a standing army
you know at one point you you you run to
the end of the ocean and then it starts
turning back in on yourself or what is
it what was what was the argument there
was it just simply too too similar to
what the King had yeah well the argument
I think there would be and this goes to
your earlier point as well the argument
against the standing army and the
argument is that once you have one it
just tends
having one if you have one you're going
to use it right I would be one and
always in a state of war I mean this is
the Republicans sort of recoil
from certain kinds of war making was
based on the idea that if you you know
the more the more you're at war the more
likely you're going to give the
executive power I think this again goes
into arguments that we've been having
over the past you know past hundred
years in the past 20 years I mean once
you're in the state of war the executive
is going to have more power that's
always the way things seem to work so
isn't there an incentive then on the
part of the executive to be warlike so
that actually sometimes it's you know
wagging the the tail of the tails
wagging the dog you're actually the
executive is looking for looking for war
situations in order to increase
executive power Hamilton was directly
accused of this kind of mentality when
he when he was and and and and often
rightly so I think I think he was very
drawn to the idea that that you know war
making increases power in the executive
and he liked both he liked he had a
Marshall sort of attraction and he also
was very very strong on on a vigorous
powerful executive so this was
definitely part of the argument it's
sometimes made some people even you know
to go slightly against my earlier point
some people really were against
expanding also I should give them credit
as well
there was also an anti expansionist
mentality and even even a pro native
native Ament allottee among some of the
eastern thinkers that it was just wrong
to go take these peoples land and also
that it was wrong to just keep expanding
because expansionism leads to militarism
and militarism leads to more dictatorial
kinds of power so that mentality did
exist that that kind of protest did
exist
those were the the early social justice
warriors I guess yeah I mean the people
who are really abolitionists like
Quakers for example many of them were
also very opposed to to expanding into
Indian Territory and there was a sort of
a noble savage romanticism even among
some people about how actually the more
that the native people are more natural
Republicans than we are they're more
democratic in their their their nobler
and finer and they don't they don't seek
to expand and they don't seek to make
war we should be more like them and not
be taking their land so those those
threads in our culture existed also
right
from the beginning so let's return to
some of the the history that you talked
about the there's this massacre of of
American troops known as the st. Clare's
defeat would tell us what what were the
circumstances of that defeat was this
was this a a function of a half-hearted
attempt to expand or was it or what it
was a full-on attempt to expand across
the Ohio River but it was half-hearted
in its in its military effectiveness
because there was sort of an idea that
the Washington administration had that
we can just do this without actually
bringing this argument to a total head
we're not we can just sort of tell
Congress like it's not going to it's not
going to take that much to do it's sort
of a simple mop up there's not that much
opposition we're just going to send a
small force we don't have to go crazy
here just give us enough just give us
enough and we'll do it quickly and they
were underrating both for political
reasons and also I think sincerely at
the same time underrating the degree of
extreme opposition on the part of the of
the indigenous people who live there and
the degree to which they had become
sophisticated both politically and
militarily in their in their resolve to
keep the United States back east of the
Ohio River
so you used the term massacred I'm just
gonna dissent from that a little bit
because it was actually it was a battle
Massacre tends to imply some kind of
unfair something I don't know sort of
unfair or a slaughter of innocents and
so forth I just it was a battle in which
the United States was the first battle
that the United States as a nation ever
fought and it doesn't there's a book
about it by Colin Calloway called I
think the battle with no name or the I
forget the exact name of the it's
strange that it doesn't have a name
because it was the first battle the
United States ever fought as a nation
and it was a total baby that's why I'm
because yeah exactly that's that's my
theory too that's why we don't have a
name for it because the first battle we
ever fought was an abject defeat coming
out of arrogance and poor discipline on
the US side and
excellent tactics and strategy and
superb discipline on the native side so
that's called seaming it does have I
guess it does have a name it's sometimes
called Sinclair's defeat but as you say
that to most people they they've never
heard of it the just in terms of actual
numbers of casualties it puts like the
Battle of the Little Bighorn much later
and much better known it makes it look
like nothing I mean it was a massive
victory call it a defeat but actually
the other way to look at it of course is
that it was a thrilling victory on the
part of the native confederation that
achieved it it was a it was with the
bench who actually ended up being the
high-water mark of native resistance to
u.s. expansion westward and yet still it
isn't known talked about much so much
again is why why I wanted to write this
book so one would think that the results
right I mean if I guess we call this war
the Mulligan if it was sold in
Washington as like this is don't worry
about this is a little mop-up type of
situation not a big deal we got it you
know this is this is such a tiny deal
that we got this you would think
intuitively you would think like oh if
they're massively defeated this is gonna
make people gun-shy and they're gonna
say we're just not going to engage in
this type of stuff but within a couple
of years we've got a standing army how
do what happens well one thing that
happened is a lot of politics a lot of a
lot of you know sort of politics junkie
level politics of how the Washington
administration turned this you know
egregious defeat or this thrilling
victory from the Indian point-of-view
into a political wedge to actually get
what they'd always wanted anyway we have
to keep in mind we're just talking about
that they always wanted a standing army
anyway it's one of these odd moments
where in the one hand it was a horrible
defeat and much life was lost and
Washington was sincerely I believe he
had a total meltdown a total temper
tantrum when he heard about it I believe
he was sincerely shocked and horrified
by these feet on the other hand as so
often happens in politics and
if you're a really tough savvy
politician which Washington was you can
turn that around and turn it into a
political victory and yes on the one
hand you'd think people would be gun-shy
on the other hand this was a terrifying
this was a terrifying moment of yes
defeat but also it seemed like well
what's going to happen next I mean all
of the settlers out there are going to
be killed will be you know to use the
word massacred there won't be any
defense out there what are we what are
they going to do next are they going to
come all the way to Pittsburgh which was
sort of the Western you know the western
frontier edge or they gonna burn
Pittsburgh down and kill everyone there
I mean how far how far back is the
frontier going to be pushed this was a
this was and people had family and
friends living out there trying to live
out there and then there was the
development group the the owners really
have a lot of that land the speculators
in that land who thought of themselves
as its owners who were who were among
the elites who were deeply committed to
defending those investments and so there
was there were multitude of factors
which I get into but but through some
very adroit and tough politicking the
Washington administration pushed through
Congress partly by using public opinion
partly by manipulating Congress into
situations in which it would just look
have looked politically inexpedient not
to vote the way the administration
wanted Congress to vote I mean good old
American you know politics and I should
add that in the administration at the
time were Hamilton of course and also
Jefferson who we rightly see as bitter
enemies and they certainly did hate each
other's guts at that time however they
work together as Washington subordinates
on this project with Henry Knox as well
to bring about the the political
machinations some open in some backroom
that got the the army bill passed
through the house and then Washington
made some some other deals with senators
to get it through the Senate and not
very long after that horrible defeat we
did indeed have the first United States
professional National United States Army
I mean I gotta say as you as
you're going through the varied agendas
behind this right this pre-existing
desire to have a standing army and all
that that implies both from a defensive
standpoint but also from an expansive
standpoint the pre-existing financial
incentives and then they sort of like
the the the ginning up arguably maybe
not ginning up but it sounds like it of
fears of you know if we don't get them
there we got to fight them here I mean
it sounds very reminiscent of the
build-up to the Iraq war to probably
many other of our conflicts that this
stuff is I mean is it that and maybe I'm
wrong in that assessment and you'll tell
me but if I'm right is it that these
dynamics are basically eternal or is it
that these dynamics are seem to be
eternal at least in the context of
American history because this was what
this was the pattern that we got in at
the beginning
yeah these dynamics are original in
American history I think that's I think
that's a lesson of this of looking at
this period and this war that nobody
ever looks at this first war we ever
fought whether they're eternal meaning
like are we going to be bound by such
issues forever in the future because we
began this way I wouldn't want to say
that wrong but I guess they would happen
with these I think you mean or existing
in nature or was it simply like you know
we got in this is the way the country
was founded you know at a very you know
if we look at you know sir there's a lot
of things locked in for people around
the ages of three or four you know and
five and and and it's as if like this is
what happened when we were in preschool
and in kindergarten and
you know as adults we still function the
same way as a as a nation yeah I do see
this as sort of embryonic in that sense
and baked in pretty you know baked in
pretty early all of us all the dynamics
we're talking about everything you just
went through that does seem to me so you
know so reminiscent of or since we're
going the other way sort of potentially
predictive of some of the issues around
getting into Vietnam and some of the
issues around getting into Iraq a lot of
the rhetoric a lot of the combinations
of it as you've said ginning up which is
absolutely was part of it was part of
the tactic people having pre-existing
agendas which then get fulfilled in
conditions of crisis being able to sort
of try to drag Congress kicking and
screaming through a series of states of
emergency where it would just be
politically and expedient to vote
against a certain resolution say all of
those things you know obviously I'm
reading the original history back
through my knowledge of contemporary
history and one could say that I'm over
reading it that way but to just you know
and that so that would be an interesting
argument to have but I do think to your
point that the things that we have
gotten used to in some of our later wars
are embryonic to this first war and
maybe more embryonic to this first war
than some of the better-known Wars which
again goes back to the question of why
have we forgotten about this war why
isn't it part of our our public
discussion and I think the reason is
because possibly it's it's embryonic and
it reflects on later issues that we
don't want to deal with either those
later issues being how we came about I
mean it would have been one thing right
I guess if we had had a standing army
because we were under attack versus yeah
it's right right right you were going on
attack right why do we go to war and why
do we why do we like to think we go to
war versus why do we actually go to war
for example I mean those kinds of issues
what what is the rhetoric of war of
making war when why do we define certain
Wars as legitimate and others as maybe
in retrospect illegitimate how do we get
around those those objections those
protests those dissents against going to
war
at the time that that a certain element
really wants to go to war I think all of
those things can be seen in this first
war which just makes it it just
continues to blow my mind that we just
don't know about this war but I think
it's because it's so revealing of the of
the basis of of these problems that we
have as a nation in trying to define
what we think is legitimate reason to
fight a war let me just ask you as as a
historian I mean do you is your I mean I
guess I think as someone who's not a
historian and and sort of I think my
relationship to history was was was
fairly rudimentary as a as a if any I
don't think I had any relationship to
history as a as a sort of a mode of
thinking and I mean when you because you
know as we talk about these dynamics
that that started with tobacco a couple
hundred years ago and you know you can
it's almost as if these things someone
once told me about social work that when
you see a family that is incredibly
dysfunctional that you have to
understand that's taken generations to
get there that these problems are sort
of passed down you know from one
interaction to another parent to child
and then child grows up to be parent to
their child and they are directly
implicated through the generations I
mean is it Minh is this story tell us
that perhaps it's the the same way I
mean you can you could say that about
the tobacco industry that we understand
we're going to run out of you know
the places to grow but we're also going
to run out of consumers at one point
we've got to hide certain things and if
there isn't the same dynamic here that
is that is resonating not as a sort of a
distant example but as one that is part
of a continuum and this sort of
mentality it worked then the way they
went about
getting that standing army and these
practices are sort of passed down
generation to generation yeah that's a
very interesting set of thoughts I mean
yeah maybe one way I guess I would sort
of I would think about that in terms of
the story I'm telling here is one of the
interesting things that I get into
toward the end of the book where I sort
of try to look ahead after you know
there's no suspense to the book you know
Ohio and Indiana and Illinois become
part of the United States as everybody
knows so after that has happened then
looking ahead to like well what happens
to the standing army and and what
happens to the Midwest which of course
immediately very almost immediately
becomes this incredible industrial
driver of American Empire you know
around the world which goes I think
right to what you're talking about this
kind of generational development one of
the things that happens kind of early on
in that is that you know the Jefferson
point of view Jefferson was working with
Hamilton and Knox and Washington to
bring about this standing army but he
was always odd man out in this area in
the cabinet in Washington's cabinet and
as we know you know part of party
politics begins right in the period that
I'm talking about in Jefferson very soon
be leaves the cabinet and becomes a
member of the opposition party and by
the time everything's resolved in the
story I'm telling we begin to get
pushback against the Federalist Party
partly because they were accused of
being militarists and once Washington
was out of power and Hamilton was sort
of trying to run everything from outside
of power as well the Federalist Party
does become just just I mean that the
military budgets just go through the
roof and it just suddenly they don't
have Washington to sort of I don't know
make it more politic make it more
palatable they just seem like they're
out of control and really to some extent
you know what Hamilton tried to you know
was pushing for a war with France at
that point um this didn't happen at that
point but um that that brought down the
Federalist Party in a way and
Jefferson's party as we know came in and
the way Jefferson's party was was
presenting themselves they were the anti
militaristic party at this point and
Jefferson people looked at it as like
well this is the real American
Revolution now we're back on track those
guys went crazy they were tyrannical and
militaristic etcetera etcetera
well if you look but if you look at what
happens next of course again if you
really mean everyone already knows this
but if you put it in this context it's
rather striking that well it's really
during the Jefferson era that the
country really begins to expand westward
because of course Jeff it was Jefferson
amid the Louisiana Purchase and the army
and there had to be a military presence
further and further west and in
Jefferson to wanted to he and he's the
one who actually starts talking about
moving all of the recalcitrant native
people across the Mississippi River he
put it in literally he said for their
own good I think that's an exact quote
he didn't want to put it in in such a in
such a harsh way but in fact generation
the next sort of jet quote unquote
generation of government in America
which was supposed to be much more lean
mean Republican much less militaristic
really takes its really during the
Jefferson administration that everything
Washington and Hamilton and Knox fought
for comes into its biggest fruition and
so and you could even jump a number of
generations ahead and look at Teddy
Roosevelt's era and there's Roosevelt
now looking offshore you know he wanted
to he want to go to Cuba and you know
now we need the Philippines and we need
to get beyond beyond the continent and
he looked back at the very war that I'm
talking about which has so since been
forgotten in the public discussion but
wrote Teddy Roosevelt was very keenly
aware of the war that I'm writing about
and he saw it I mean he was openly and
celebrit orally claiming that this war
this Indian war the first war the nation
ever fought the war for the Midwest he
was claiming it as a as a precedent for
what he wanted to do when people
objected to what Roosevelt was trying to
do he said why don't you just go talk to
the go talk to the Indians and tell them
you know give the land back I mean come
on this is what we do he said wake up
grow up we've been doing it since day
one
he had a realpolitik attitude toward it
and many of us have chosen instead to
sort of forget what happens then and we
wouldn't want to adopt Roosevelt's point
of view on it necessarily of course but
the question then becomes what do we do
with it what do we do with it how do we
want to construct it and contextualize
where we come from because
I think to your to your larger point I
mean the longer we don't look at these
things the more likely likely we are to
exactly do what you're talking about
which is a repeat and repeat and repeat
in that same way you're talking about
what we've worked before now we'll try
something else that's similar and it'll
work again in a different context and we
don't change so that's kind of why I
like to unearth this kind of stuff
William Hoagland the book is autumn of
the black snake the creation of the US
Army in the invasion that opened the
West thank you so much for your time
today it's fascinating stuff thank you
very much for having me it's been a fun
discussion uh a woman who is not a
reporter's rising until just an average
American and now I imagine it will come
out that she's you know I don't know
some paid operative for some right-wing
outfit it really doesn't matter what oh
she does she really uh she a writers
associate editor oh she is okay I didn't
know cuz it didn't sort of like okay
yeah or so she had editor because it was
I'm a conservative and I went to an
Alexandria Acacio Cortes rally I would
assume if you're writing The Daily
Caller you're a conservative but I guess
this was more of like a clickbait type
of thing
she writes that I went to a rally
against the seventh term incumbent
William lacy clay over the years I have
attended my share of political events
Tea Party protests a Rick Perry speech
on tax cuts electrified content a Ted
Cruz rally and even a speech given by
President Donald Trump earlier this year
but nothing prepared me for the stark
difference in tone this sort of reads
like like a cross between like a one of
those like Playboy forums I remember
like dishonest the last thing I was
expecting yeah you should do last thing
I was expecting at a Democratic
Socialist meeting was to meet a hot
photo rican
no nerd but I'm no nerd I mean I've been
around but the last thing I expected the
ev1 even okay here we go
okay so Ocasio Cortez spoke followed by
Bush that's the candidate and I saw
something truly terrifying I saw just
how easy it would be where I less
involved in less certain of our nation's
founding in its history to fall for the
populist lines they were shouting from
that stage I saw how easy it would be as
a parent to accept the idea that my
children deserve health care and
education very easy to manipulate people
it's stuff like well I just I I want
this to just I want people to I want
this to marinate in your brain that a
parent just said I saw how easy it would
be as a parent to accept the idea that
my children deserve health care and
education
Jesus I saw how easy it would be as
someone who struggled to make men ends
meet to accept the idea that a quote
living wage was a human right sounds
persuasive doesn't above all I saw how
easy it would be to accept the notion
that it was the government's job to make
sure that those things were provided I
watched as both occasio Cortes and I
should say you know I didn't read this
part because I was I wasn't sure about
it earlier but she talks about hearing
all these snippets of conversations okay
that like involved one person praising
the strength and dedication of convicted
cop killer Assata Shakur I'd also like
to just cosign I would like to praise
the thought of Shakur if I may thank you
I mean all these kind of whatever okay
it doesn't matter all right I just it's
very but whatever I watched his both
Acacio Cortes and Bush definitely
chopped America up into demographics
pointed out how those demographics had
been victimized under the current system
and then promised to be the voice for
those demographics the movement Ocasio
Cortez shouted knows no zip code it
knows no state it knows no race it knows
no gender it knows no documented status
in other words they cut it up into
demographics but then said the movements
not about demographics Bush after saying
your piece noted she was careful to
allow speakers from all across all
demographics why are the demographics
what they represent just one particular
group but all my demographics gated
demographic and can't quite get my my
arms around whether she's saying that
they contradicted themselves or that
because that last sentence says even
though we've allowed speakers to talk
about things from different demographics
here we represent everyone how horrific
now as opposed to let's say that Ted
Cruz rally we're like we only have one
broad demographic normal white people
and that's it
we have one demographic and other
demographics are gonna need to cry I
left the rally with a photo in part to
remind myself of that time I crashed a
rally headlined by a socialist but also
in part to remind myself that there but
for the grace of God go I
this is God listen your kid does not
deserve health care or the ability to
eat I'm sorry just there's a lot of
propaganda that as an example a kid who
has leukemia but didn't work for his
healthcare deserves treatment we don't
get fooled by the old Jew or the young
PR but all day true please
I believe me listen you know it's gone
I'm a guy all right so if I can't we use
the word anymore this is God
Jezebel's so she of course got a ride on
to a free ticket I should say on Fox and
Friends and here she is where she um Fox
and Friends yeah yes you hear she has
some Fox and Friends talking about the
horror that she had witnessed the night
before and where she would have gone but
for the grace of God derivative and she
went to one of her rallies daily callers
Virginia cruda thank you so much for
being with us and you wrote an op-ed
about it tell us why you went to her
rally what was the interest thanks for
having me
well I I went kind of to see what the
fuss was about really because I mean
I've been to conservative rallies before
I've been to a Trump speech I've been to
a Ted Cruz rally when he was running for
president and I just kind of wanted to
see you know why the message was
resonating because really the socialist
message is gaining steam within the
Democrat Party so based upon what you
saw why are people drawn to this message
um well I was listening to to them talk
to a patio cortes and also to Cory Bush
who she was stumping for it in st. Louis
and they say things I mean I talk about
things that everybody wants especially
like if you're a parent they talk about
education for your kids health care for
your kids these the things that you want
and you know if you're not really paying
attention to how they're gonna pay for
it or you know the rest of that it's
easy to fall into that trap and say my
kids deserve
this and you know well maybe the
government should be responsible for
helping me with that mm-hmm
Virginia as a conservative when you're
sitting in NASA for one second I mean
does it feel like like she's even saying
these words out of her mouth that she's
about to go hey wait a second Virginia
is a sociopath how do you respond to the
basic human sentiment that children
shouldn't starve and people should have
health care this is pretty easy for
people to like you but they don't talk
about how you're gonna pay for it
or any of that you can kind of see the
gears turning in her mom's right like
she's just going with God it would be
nice if my kids could get health care
continue doing for your kids health care
for your kids these the things that you
want and you know if you're not really
paying attention to how they're gonna
pay for it or you know the rest of that
it's easy to fall into that trap and say
my kids deserve this
and you know well maybe the government
should be responsible for helping me
with that mm-hmm Virginia as a
conservative when you're sitting in that
audience or standing in that audience
and you're listening to that message how
did it make you feel were you angry were
you more drawn to that I was mostly
uncomfortable because I was surrounded
by a group of people who were talking
about how they had gotten involved
because they were tired of being angry
all the time when it seems like so much
effort to be angry about everything
instead of to focus on what you could do
to change it I don't get the last part
that was their choice you say that yeah
there were people at a political rally
to support candidates who were gonna go
out and change things and they said that
they were there because they were tired
of being angry and I just think it's
weird that you would be angry and not go
out and do something to support it she's
really phoning it in here no kidding I
didn't know better I think she were a
plant from DSA I mean it's possible or I
think it's possible we're watching sort
of like a slow
we can again awakening / a nervous
breakdown
that's possible it reminds me of you
know how Dave husband talks about how
the left is so negative right she goes
to a brown Alexander yokosuka testing
and gets the exact opposite for say
roughly especially and then and then
maybe when Tucker's like you're fired
and you're not health care anymore maybe
that will be the next lesson right
exactly ongoing nervous now this this
notion of of conservatives being afraid
that the left in some way offers some
vision that is like too sugary and to
the the trap here is that it actually
sounds great is an old construct in fact
back in fubar the book that Stephen
Cheryl and I wrote back in 2006 we had a
with them oh well we had a clip let's
put that clip up there and not a clip a
story about a guy named dr. Paul Cameron
he was the founder of the Family
Research Institute and the unfortunately
named Isis which was the Institute for
the scientific investigation sexuality
this is a real deal might actually have
something that's similarly named and
programmed right right he was a huge
figure in the rights attempt to
marginalize LGBT people and this is a a
a clip of something that he wrote this
is from this is I think it might be an
interview that Robert Dreyfus did with
him back in 1999 if you isolate
sexuality is something solely for one's
own personal amusement and all you want
is the most satisfying orgasm you can
get and that's what homosexuality seems
to be then homosexuality seems too
powerful to resist the evidence is that
men do a better job on men and women I'm
not I'm not clear where this evidence
lies but
it's possible he's reviewed the evidence
the a he's seen a lot of documentaries
about this and women on women if all
you're looking for is orgasm I'm
convinced that lesbians are particularly
good seducers it's pure sexuality it's
almost like pure heroin it's such a rush
they are committed in almost a religious
way as opposed to the religious people
committed in a religious way soliciting
small-scale donations to watch porn all
day and they'll take enormous risks do
anything marital sex
tends toward the boring end generally it
doesn't deliver the kind of sheer sexual
pleasure that homosexual sex does the
era of the pajama boy is over I think in
the book we said our apologies to mrs.
dr. Cameron but that's that's the whole
story here right like the problem with
the idea as a parent you're susceptible
to this message that your kid deserves
health care and an education and it's so
alluring that you will actually maybe
sign up to have your kid get health care
and an education and then your kid will
have health care and an education part
of me wishes I was still religious so I
could tell the woman that she's probably
listening to the to Satan there but for
the grace care that's not God that's
Satan well there you have folks the
daily caller but you know what's awesome
about that story is it is the most click
story I would bet on Daily Caller
probably for the week and so they're
gonna do more of these like I went to an
AOC rally and she promised that people
would get the opportunity to go to
college for free
and let's not shy away from this not
only did the zoo of college they deserve
pure heroin or gas we're not going to
shy away from it edible pure gay how Ron
pure not stepped odd straight from the
poppy fields of Pacha's a good slow yeah
here hair
your Hara with orgasms okay look in my
opinion you go to Denmark there's a lot
more pure heroin orgasms and there's no
reason why we shouldn't have that here
all right look we were playing with this
last night on the TMDs post game because
Jordan Peterson actually said recently
that this was a this was really amazing
piece of work actually we should maybe
play that yeah let's just play that why
not let's just give them the full the
full entree here a little bit of double
dips today but this stuff is too good to
not do so let's play Jordan Peterson
talking to a very dumb steven crowder
yeah Jordan Peterson can set up this
video clip for us actually Jordan Peters
exactly gig
hey dr. Peterson the original reason we
were going to have you on we didn't know
we were going to have Lindsey on was you
had seen also the Alexa video and had
some strong opinions and reached out and
that sort of caught fire with this
controversy first off it was meant to be
sort of artificial intelligence a
discussion on that when we brought the
video out right now Kay Jared and then
it became about a conspiracy about
faking an Alexa video which people ran
with which mean it was a blur of time to
do yeah which we had no time it was
verifiably from Kelly what was that so I
I know you reach down you you view this
is something you've kind of talked about
for a while what's what's your take on
this beware of what aren't kind of
unconscious you build into your
artificial intelligence yeah so it's an
important one and why it's really and
we're really going to be key thought
that your video was a kind of watershed
moment in some sense you know because
it's the first example I've seen of a
like a human robot interaction of that
sort that produced that kind of
politically charged statement okay so
this is pretty heady stuff from a person
that has been identified as the most
important public intellectual in the
Western world let's go back into the
time tunnel
worthy let's go back in time we went
back to the
watershed moments go back to this
watershed moment and not only broadcast
history but actually the relationship
between the human subconscious and
technology Alexa what is communism Alexa
what is socialism I that's not right at
all no there are so strong there's
socialism that predated Marx and their
social isms that emerged independent of
it yeah don't you know anything Alexa
yeah that is a lot of what is Marxism
relations and Society of conflict using
a materialist interpretation of
historical development and a dialectical
view of social transformation pauses I
was gonna say that
Alexa nailed that one that is a textbook
she just spat knowledge I might curb
that one yeah it probably helps that she
has instant access to Google yeah
exactly that's that well that's there's
gonna be a little bit of a theme around
that what Google may or may not be doing
here and how these guys may or may not
understand the most basic Sally really
of Technology but literally the
algorithms upon which their whole silly
business even rests on social
transformation this basically just said
communism is socialism socialism is the
incorporation of Marxism and then
Marxism was so it effectively concedes
concedes that they are all the same
things and thing well no point proved
apparently Wow it's good that's okay
sure Alexa what is fascism fascism is a
form of radical authoritarian
nationalism characterized by dictatorial
power forcible suppression of opposition
and control of Industry and Commerce
that came to prominence in early
essentially Europe seems that there's a
much more negative view of fascism than
communism strong opinions there I only
say what I know
communism is beautiful in theory it just
hasn't been implemented correctly yet
she's a little commie Alexa who was
Joseph Stalin Josef Vissarionovich
Stalin was a Georgian born Soviet
revolutionary and political leader posit
I will say that is a pretty chill read
on Stalin I'm gonna have to give him at
least the tip of the hat there she's not
wrong she's not wrong but that might not
be what you lead with she kind of
skipped over the part where yeah a lot
of people Alexa well also I mean on the
flip she also skipped over the part
where he was instrumental in defeating
Nazis in winning World War two like she
basically I'm done for including both of
them yeah I'm down for Lake let's
include that he was a absolutely vicious
mass murderer probably even potentially
even in his own personal life and that
without his Soviet Army and his cunning
after previously forming a fascist
alliance with Hitler we would not have
defeated Nazism and an endless amount of
Russians died in that effort and they
never get any credit it's totally unfair
Alexa how many people did Joseph Stalin
kill Joseph Stalin is a killer at 41
million 500,000 people seems like you
would leave with that it seems like that
should be included Alexa who were the
Nazis historically Nazis we're those who
followed the far-right ideology of Adolf
Hitler with political beliefs involving
the superiority of the Aryan race cruder
wonders eyebrows go up when they say
far-right right what what do these
morons want see this is where they're
these guys are so stupid
because what they want
apparently is there can be no complexity
or reality in a discussion of socialism
or Marxism that just has to be all it is
is Stalin killed a lot of people there's
no intellectual tradition there's no
Fabian socialism no Christian socialism
and to be fair I'm sure that Steven
Crowder has no idea what any of those
things I just mentioned are he's a dumb
guy but so but I at least I understand
what they're whining and beefing about
with the socialism and Marxism thing
because why are you describing other
things it should just be the body counts
okay that's what they're saying it
should just be the black book of
communism which had some methodological
problems by the ways a book but what do
they want the complication around
fascism to be do they want it to be that
like Nazism was a cool idea about
Germans feeling better about themselves
and hiking in the Alps but unfortunately
some bad things happen they built some
good interstates and pioneered some
missile technologies so is he doing that
or is he doing the ultimate
dinesh d'souza Don jr. Jonah Goldberg
chestnut which is that the Nazis were
also leftists is that what we're going
okay historically Nazis we're those who
followed the far-right ideology of Adolf
Hitler with political beliefs involving
the superiority of the Aryan race the
right of German territorial expansion
and the exclusion and eventual
extermination of unfit peoples from the
population in modern times neo Nazi
ideology still advocates hyper
nationalism and racial purity Alexa what
does Nazi stand for C is an abbreviation
of cytosine Alexa what does Nazi stand
for defined as your neurological
function not true and false look so what
does not see you mean Nazi has a few
different meanings as an adjective 1
relating to or consistent with our
typical of the ideology and crack
of Nazism or the Nazis Alexa who was the
nationalist Socialist Workers Party
here's something I found on Wikipedia
the National Socialist German Workers
Party commonly referred to in English as
the Nazi Party there we go
Thank You Alexa no more Alexa she owned
him okay now this is just the last one
that I think I think this is maybe the
most revealing what question they ask
and the way their reactions are to it
here we go okay
though what is black lives matter God
black lives matter is an international
activist movement originating in the
african-american community that
campaigns against violence and systemic
racism towards black people was it Alexa
is kind of she's pretty historically
informed and got a woke lives matter is
an international activist movement
originating in the African American
community that campaigns against
violence and systemic racism towards
black people Alexa how many black lives
matter activists have stolen you it's
cuz they wiped your memory mmm god
that's so racist not to state the
obvious but like oh god I feel like that
is actually the laughs for that it's
amazing to me that they are so assured
that everyone's gonna have that reaction
to that answer about black lives matter
right look can you believe they say
they're against police violence what you
mean a standard definition about people
working so that their children brothers
and sisters and fathers and husbands
aren't murdered in the streets as we see
almost literally every day it's
ridiculous I've got a clip here what
about George Soros funded ultra
nationalist anti white plot to kill
white people like they're doing it South
Africa Alexa well this is why
comedy is so contingent upon the society
in which it's produced the people the
place like because I don't know 50 years
ago the majority of people would have
thought that his joke was funny and now
the majority of people understand that
that joke is racist and only racists
think that that joke is funny that
meaning is socially constructed I have a
clip here from Volcker Eric's Hitler
ascent 1889 1939 this talks about his
relationship to Marxism tell me more wow
I think you just literally if the Social
Democrats and the Communists but because
the moderate Hamburg SPD which
cooperated with bourgeois liberals was
not a suitable target for attack
Hitler concentrated his bile on the KPD
who was leader Ernst thälmann came from
the northern German port city Hitler
deliberately called upon the fears of
his audience which included leading
Hamburg merchants of the communists
coming to power
if communism were to triumph today 2
million people would be making their way
to the gallows he prophesied but there
was a way of smashing and eradicating
the Marxist worldview which was the aim
of his own movement the NSDAP Hitler
proclaimed knew that toxins could only
be combated with antitoxins and the
party would not rest until the last
marxist has either been converted or
eliminated the initially reserved
audience greeted these words with
frenetic applause and at the end of the
speech when Hitler proclaimed his vision
of a Germany of freedom and power he was
showered with ovations and shouts of hi
oh there's your leftist Nazis steven
crowder you idiot Oh Lex oh who was that
Alexa who is being quoted yeah Matt but
do you remember what Nazis stand for oh
I don't know I don't know socialist
Susie's name but guess that does mean a
definite Volcker Earl Ehrlich or Ulrich
addressed that but that is a pretty
Volker Ehrlich was you Metallica
it's textbook fascist to take words
that people like and appropriate them
and a concepts that people like like
that's what they're doing now with
liberal jr. bolsa narrows party
that he is running on is called the
social Liberal Party and he's literally
a fascist who's called for you know
who's said that the military
dictatorship didn't torture and murder
enough people when it ran Brazil now
again I have no doubt that steven
crowder does not know who gyre bolson
arrow is because how does a dumb person
yet steven crowder is a very stupid guy
so I'm trying to be fair here so maybe
unless you know the Koch brothers or
whoever else sent him an email and said
you know Garibaldi Ruiz you dumb little
prick because that's how we're gonna
install and Brazil to torture indigenous
people he has no idea who he is
otherwise because he's a stupid
uninformed person he might know I'm not
even clear that steven crowder knows
what Brazil is certainly not that it's
Portuguese let's go to a 509 area code
who's this where you calling from
Samuel Feder I presume young time
listener first-time caller from the owl
of presidents in sunny Orlando Florida
Wow at Disney resorts tis I Franklin
Delano Roosevelt oh well hello Franklin
Manuel yesterday I tuned in to your show
late and could hear you were quite
distraught about something but I did not
hear the news tell me was there a
collapse of the global markets leaving
tens of millions of Americans homeless
jobless and scrapping for their next
meal no not yet the Japanese engage in a
surprise attack and believe me it was a
complete surprise which resulted in
thousands of dead Americans while
plunging us into a bloody global war
over the future of civilization ah no it
was and tell me Samuel do your legs
still work
they do yes then pull yourself together
for Christ's sake in my day when they
tried to own the lids I lined up all the
Republicans in Congress shoulder to
shoulder and had Ellen all pushed my
chair down the line while I whip each of
them square in the balls with my cane
yes they did everything they could to
stop my greatest accomplishments like
say I don't know a little thing you may
have heard of what they're called social
 security right I've heard of
that that's one of my favorites yes yes
and things are bleak and now you've had
your day to mourn to wander the streets
of New York like a sad pathetic dog with
your tail between your legs but today
you sharpen your shift because you're on
a prison yard fight Sam
now go bury that toothbrush handle and
the jugular of the biggest meanest man
in the clink metaphorically speaking of
course yes well I I appreciate now i
must jump as they say before the more
troubling parts of my legacy get brought
up like the japanese internment camps my
treatment of the Negro's all that time i
 my cousin
[Music]
double or you know yeah that was very
edgy taining but yeah you know I got was
not a New York area code to that was the
odd part or a Florida one he might be
down taking the springs that's right
well I mean he is from the Hall presence
I mean as far as we know he is dead
calling from a 2:08 Eric
