the idea that Donald Trump would declare
a state of emergency seems to have you
know been so universally rejected or I
say I should say unequivocally rejected
by Mitch McConnell and with good reason
- because if Donald Trump sets this
precedent the problem for someone like
Mitch McConnell is Republicans don't
really have things that they want the
government to do so the the power to
call a national emergency to implement a
policy like you know what are they gonna
do it like we have a national emergency
we need to unilaterally cut taxes for
billionaires right like that doesn't
that doesn't quite work however on the
Left there's a lot of things a you know
a president Elizabeth Warren let's say
or a president Kamala Harris or Bernie
Sanders or Cory Booker or whomever could
say which is like we have a national
emergency in fact it's a global
emergency its global warming we're going
to I'm gonna nationalize the refineries
so I'm going to take over the you know
or we have an emergency
30% of our population doesn't have
access to broadband internet I mean the
we have a national emergency you know
our we have an opioid epidemic we need
to to highly regulate production I mean
there's a whole litany of things that
are highly problematic that a specific
you know the president of the the left
or the center-left could use that power
and I think Mitch McConnell's worry
about it and so we don't know how this
is going to resolve but the bottom line
is that Donald Trump because of the sort
of the depth of the racism within his
party he cannot pretend like he's
building a wall because someone really
really want this wall
and and so you know we were talking
about the idea of to the extent that
there's anybody in the party you know
the like a Tim Scott for instance when
Tim Scott stands up and and he's right
now fighting the the promotion of a
federal judge I think it out of South
Carolina or I should say North Carolina
the Conservatives would get pretty mad
at him and because he's supposed to be
there to say Republicans are not racist
in these days he's been saying stuff
like hey guys we got a little bit of a
problem here
yeah Republicans are racist and and so
you know it's gonna be interesting to
see what happens there but it's also
interesting to see the the sensitivity
that the Democratic Party has to these
questions now I would imagine in part
because they feel like we've got to walk
the walk because we've been talking the
talk and I'm talking about what's going
on in Virginia and it is a mess we have
a Democratic governor who was who
supposedly allegedly was pictured either
in blackface or in a clans robe in a you
know medical school yearbook he claims
it wasn't him I don't know why after 35
years he did you know there was never
occurred to him to like look at his
yearbook and go like hey what are those
two guys in the horribly racist outfits
am I on my yearbook page that you would
think that would have come up
nevertheless he claims it wasn't him
he's hanging in there doesn't want to
retire or resign I should say although
everyone in the Democratic Party is more
or less called for it there's a lot of
infighting in Virginia as my
understanding his lieutenant governor
Fairfax during the course of the week
was accused or I should say an old
accusation from a year or two ago that
he had assaulted sexually assaulted a
woman at the DNC in 2004
came back up he claimed that the
Washington Post had already vetted this
and it was no good the Washington Post
pushed back a little bit on that and
then by mid-week the Attorney General
also a Democrat in Virginia announces
that he has a picture of him in
blackface from when he was in college
and I I don't know what to say
you know who's left in Virginia well you
know the problem with all that is is
that you know I mean that calls for the
governor Northam to resign we're pretty
much across the board I mean everybody
fig that picture is unbelievable and
even if it's not him in the picture it's
been pretty well proven that he's the
one who submitted the picture to the
yearbook he denies it but the yearbook
people are going well you know we don't
just put you know they were all
submitted by the people you know so
that's how that got there it would take
a wild mistake for that to happen and
you know it's just it's not it's not
logical that this happened so he's he's
got to go but he's hanging in there in
fact there was even some talk that he
was considering switching parties which
i think would be really a great thing
for him it would just didn't say
everything at home in the Republican
Party I mean just go with it where they
want me you know I don't want to be
where I'm not wanted
30 seconds we got 30 seconds yeah the
problem is is that is that we've got you
know the governor the Lieutenant
Governor in the Attorney General that's
the line of succession and the next
person in line will be a Republican if
all three of those people have to resign
we'll have a Republican governor in
Virginia because of the Democrats
electing without realizing apparently at
the time that they were electing people
that did racist behavior in the past and
it sexually assaulted women at the
Democratic National Convention oh my god
yeah all right well listen we got a
quick break we come back we got
we got a lot more to talk about and I
got a couple more things to say about
this I'm Sam cedar this is ring a fire
radio we'll be right back with Digby
