[Music]
I'm from a seven one six area code who's
this where you calling from Buffalo New
York what's on your mind
I just kind of want to talk about a
couple issues that I I as like a
blue-collar worker you know I can't
there's some issues that Democrats or
the progressive platform has like I'm
all for all you know the Medicare for
all and whatnot and you know the free
college but the thing that more that has
me concerned especially for something
like you know some I follow people like
me is especially like you know in the
Midwest and whatnot is like the gun
control and not that I don't support it
personally you know what I mean so your
your concern that gun control policies
alienate do you think that the
Democratic proposals on gun control have
changed in any material way from let's
say 2012 to now not exactly but the
fervor over has you know grown quite a
bit like a lot of people I talked to you
know excite the hops around from
terminals I'm a truck driver you know I
can like out in Ohio and Kentucky and
whatnot like a lot of them you know
either like they support Bernie Sanders
like I'm not a big burn supporter but
what has them nervous about it though is
like are they to come after their you
know maybe they have an ar-15 or ever
you know what I mean right and do you
think that this do you do you get the
sense that they're there fear comes from
looking at the Democratic platforms or
do you think that their fear comes from
what they have been told by let's say
the NRA
see that's what I'm not entirely sure
about I mean they're really I mean
besides you know the debates like I know
um what's-his-name the one that has
dropped out Eric fall or was Eric fall
wall so well yeah yeah I know he was
really rambling about that during the
debates ago I thought I didn't want to
talk about what gun control that was
yeah that was the guy's whole platform I
mean look I think I I think I guess my
point is this is that I think Democrats
have lost already the people they're
going to lose because of any type of gun
control positions and I think that to
walk away from any type of gun control
positions would end up costing them more
votes at this point than they would gain
and so I mean I I understand what you're
saying I think maybe the to the extent
that there's any pickups that can be
made amongst those people I think it
would have to come from the fact that
like we have policies that are going to
help you and impact your life in a
positive way
and you're gonna have to make a choice a
party that would if they could and they
probably can't because of the Supreme
Court take away your ar-15 lets you
continue to have your your shotgun or or
your rifle but you're gonna get health
care for free at the point of service or
if you you're a truck worker if your
truck driver we're going to make sure
that you have a better opportunity to
make benefits for your retirement this
whole thing where they'll control what
delivery's you've got to make but call
you a contractor they're stealing wages
from you that mean there's a there's a
boat all the time my company I work for
as a terminal over there and Allah that
turbos actually look at the clothes down
to and you know a lot of those drivers
there I hear a lot of anti-trump you
know rudder going on over there but I'm
just not sure where they're actually in
a turn though you know I'm because
there's a lot of because you know like
people they are you know I mean we're
union workers so a lot of them are you
know very like fiscally you know liberal
and but you know being from the Midwest
and whatnot
they're still kind of they're still very
socially conservative you and I mean
yeah I mean I think ya know I get I get
you I mean I just don't know that those
people necessarily there's a lot of I
mean look you go fishing where the fish
are and I just don't know that there's a
lot of fish there for Democrats to be
honest with you I mean I think I think
maybe you know there can be a better job
at trying to convince them that their
material benefits are gonna make their
life better than you know the threat
that comes from the idea that women may
be more empowered or that you know
different people who look differently
than them may be empowered or or whatnot
but that I just don't know let's just my
point is is that like look you have as a
candidate you you you cannot please all
the people and so you have to make a
choice you have to make a choice and to
to try and dial back on social issues to
attract people that otherwise that
that's the reason why they're not voting
for you um you know
assumes that you can do that without
alienating the people who vote for you
now and I'm not convinced that you can
do that frankly exactly well here's
where you start you tell them about the
majority report app and I know a lot of
these guys you know get 4G or LTE in
their trucks and you have them listen to
the show every day it's live it's we're
killing two and a half hours of them
well all right well I appreciate you
know last election cycle I wasn't really
into politics not only not only have I
gotten into politics now I've matched it
my dad who you know more or less refused
to participate in government you know
and now my dad is even donating to
Bernie Sanders now so sweet you know
voice like yours and Kyle kolinsky and
whatnot that you know they can really
add a lot of people to the base that you
know people used to you know not have
any outreach to you because all just
corporate media you know yeah well tell
them uh tell your buddies you know just
give us one week they listen to us for
one week I think they'll be hooked
appreciate the call all right drive
safely right we'll we'll cut out Kyle :
skis name and post right yeah I mark
course also will cut that out this out
as well ya know if we're gonna cut out
the instruction to cut out there all
right so let's start again three two one
great call
