I want to talk a little bit about this
Facebook story the New York Times put
out an incredibly extensively reported
piece a couple of days ago which I think
just sort of confirms probably what most
people who understand Facebook at all to
begin with which is that like Amazon
needs to be nationalized Facebook
probably just needs to be abolished just
totally destroyed and you know Mark
Zuckerberg actually in a way is totally
delusional and disconnected but seems
almost because he's so disconnected less
blameless in a way and Sheryl Sandberg
is totally full of and I another
you know what that's another early
majority report called there's another
person that I never showed any respect
for and were vindicated again but but
anyways besides my pettiness what did
you take away from that story I mean
both in terms of like the way Facebook
played some very traditional DC politics
contra to their brands of hiring
Republican Oppo firms trying to even
play both sides of anti-semitism and
also really you know I have to say on
the flip side to look I don't there's so
many things that are up in the air about
the Russia stuff but what's interesting
to me is that regardless of the role
that those ads or those Russian sites or
just fake news generally played
obviously Facebook was covering it up
and had an incentive to cover it up and
that has a much bigger application than
this or that Russia story that's a major
media publishing platform which is
totally willing to lie and cover up its
culpability and a whole host of things
definitely you know blogs it was a huge
story because of Kanye West and Candace
Owens but I think one of the stories
that isn't really being focused on
enough is the number of people who are
turning their backs on Facebook and no
longer using the platform because of all
these controversies because of all these
scandals you know the Cambridge
analytical scandal
and then you know now we're hearing
about this Apple research firm that
essentially you know spread crazy
conspiracy theories that we hear from
the right-wing and you know in regard to
George Soros and what I took away from
the story more than anything was that at
the end of the day Facebook is a
corporation and for all the crap that
Silicon Valley gets from the right-wing
in regard to them allegedly being too
liberal when push comes to shove these
organizations these companies are not
really liberal they might have socially
liberal positions and I think that
that's actually the easiest thing to do
to have socially liberal positions but
when it comes to taxes when it comes to
regulation when it comes to the things
that really really matter they are
always in line with what the right-wing
wants and they always concede to
right-wing desires I mean they'll get a
little bit of bullying from
right-wingers even like clownish
right-wingers like what was it silver
and silk or whatever I mean so they
helped get some info diamond and silk
and I don't know why you're calling them
clownish you know they're super
important advisors to the Trump
administration oh my god Jim Acosta got
his press credentials pulled like 15
minutes after they went on TV and said
to get rid of him so those are some
hitters amazing amazing so I mean like
they don't do a frickin national tour
speaking tour about how all the world is
so unfair and we're being censored and
Facebook will you know get on its knees
and beg for forgiveness but you know
when it comes to other things when it
comes to hitting back at liberals you
know they're pretty aggressive and you
know especially hitting back against
their competitors like Google they're
very aggressive but another thing that I
took away from this story actually
doesn't have to do with social media at
all it has to do with this whole
industry of awful researchers and and
the damage that they do to our political
system because there are a lot of great
people out there who have flirted with
running for Congress running for office
and just knowing that these firms exist
and they just seek to just
through you and do character
assassination I mean it persuades you to
avoid running and something that's never
been announced ever publicly so I guess
this is a exclusive for your show wait
hold on
there's my board up not you ready all
right
majority reporting exclusive Anna go
ahead
so I was considering primary dianne
feinstein and was a really difficult
decision right but I decided against it
and one of the reasons why I did decide
against it is because the Oppel research
wheels were already turned like turning
like she she had already I don't know
who she employed but they had dug up
some crazy nonsensical video where we
were talking about Olivia Munn's book
this is like I don't even know how old
years and years ago and in her book she
had made fun of I'm forgetting the name
of this producer filmmaker she made fun
of his genitals and so the only
commentary I had about it was that's
that's classless you shouldn't do that
well it turns out that the same person
that she ridiculed in her book years
later she came forward and said that
this person had sexually harassed and
sexually assaulted her and so what they
did was they found that video from years
ago where we're not talking about sexual
assault at all and then they fed it to
the press to mediate to be specific and
made it seem as though I was calling her
classless for her sexual assault
allegations which I would never do in a
million years so anyway the aqua
research had already begun and I'm fine
with it being you know geared toward me
but then I started thinking about family
members you know I had a conversation
with multiple family members about you
know what do you think about this and
beiges did not want me to run because
they didn't want to be you know targeted
and it's just disgusting that these
industries exist because it really does
discourage people from getting involved
in in office getting involved in public
service yeah it is disgusting and I and
and you know this group to finer
strategies which is the Republican firm
that they hired they they they cut their
contract right around the time the piece
was published and a spokesperson for
Facebook might even been Zuckerberg was
like oh well you know they did things
that we don't want to be associated with
and I just think in general I agree with
your point I mean these these industries
are really disgusting and they
you have big sort of civic consequences
but people just need to let go of any
fantasy about Silicon Valley being any
different than any other part of the
corporate sector and the negative
dangerous influence they have them
public life and frankly Silicon Valley
needs to let go of it too because when
you talk to Wall Street people there are
a lot less delusional about what they're
up to than Silicon Valley people in my
experience I mean there's some you know
obviously there's exceptions to every
rule but you know you talk to most Wall
Street guys to like yeah I'm trying to
make a lot of money and that's what I'm
doing in Silicon Valley it's like
they're oh no we're improving
connectivity well why and for what and
how and what's the benefit oh no
connectivity is great I just want to add
to this and we'll do the the Patty part
later but I actually think this is
important because what pot save America
got locked up in this gut because they
have a guy named Tim Miller on regularly
who is sort of like their you know their
hashtag resistance like I'm a Republican
but I don't like that Trump is overtly
racist guy and he was a part of the
consulting firm that did this work for
Facebook and I just you know Ashley
Feinberg basically she has a piece and
Huffington Post called what did pod save
America expect don't put a professional
Republican smear man on your podcast I
mean yeah I don't really have anything
else to add to that like that
again I just keep using that word
delusional like what do you expect from
these people and just because they get
that Trump I mean talk about low bar I
mean these are still operatives yeah
absolutely and like this the whole song
pod save America you know we're deeply
tied with the Obama administration and
they're they're very comfy and cozy with
the establishment and you know I'm not
saying that simply to insult them it's
just the truth and so in that mind frame
working with other establishment people
is even if they have a completely
different political ideology makes sense
I mean it's the same thing we were
talking about earlier right this notion
of bipartisanship this notion that the
other side like the other side back in
the day one
as bad as they are now I mean I remember
watching a debate between George HW Bush
and Ronald Reagan on the issue of
immigration it's on YouTube and everyone
should watch it because it's
mind-blowing and it sounds like to
modern-day liberals debating immigration
it was amazing right and so that that
that provided even more evidence for me
indicating that the right wing has moved
so far to the right they're far gone
there there is no working with that and
this is why when I go to events like
politican for instance I have no
interest in hanging out in the green
room with a bunch of douche bag
right-wingers that I despise I don't
want to be friendly with them I don't
want to smile at them I don't want to
have a nice conversation with them they
are by definition the enemy at this very
moment and we need to fight them and so
when I'm going there to debate someone
I'm in that mind frame and we need
fighters we need people to fight against
these dangerous ideologies especially
when it comes to people who claim hey
I'm Republican but I'm a never Trump er
I don't care because you've been pushing
for this this movement for the country
to go further to the right for decades
you know you're the problem you're part
of what led to someone like Donald Trump
having a chance and so you know Bill
Kristol was one of the people on my
medicare-for-all panel he's a never
Trump er doesn't like Donald Trump at
all but it's also a pretty deplorable
person and so I wasn't gonna give him a
pass during this debate because he's
right on Trump he's still horrible in a
million other ways I'm also like can we
get back to like I mean not liking Trump
is like I can't even think I mean
honestly I just can't anything the right
analogy but I'm just saying like this is
like the type of thing where it's like I
don't know like this is like don't I
think basic basically everybody doesn't
like Jeffrey Dahmer like this is not
something like I get that he has a
colton II as a following but this is not
like a major accomplishment we're
talking about here you're not supposed
to like Trump you're not supposed to
like there's nothing yeah and in fact
like I mean you just exactly you're
talking about with that pathetic debate
with Steve Bannon and David Frum that
took place a couple weeks
because on top of it all Bannon beat him
because Bannon is a better speaker and
more in touch with people in very bad
ways too by the way but like and they
don't have much of a policy difference
just free it from is like let's have
restrictive punitive abusive immigration
policies but you know don't be a dick
about it
with your language and everybody sees
that yeah yeah I feel like the never
Trump Republicans are people who
actually agree with most of his policies
they just don't agree with the rhetoric
yes because the one thing that Trump has
done is he's you know he's been very
transparent about what Republicans and
the Republican Party have been about you
know their hatred for people of color
their hatred for the LGBT community I
mean he's been so their desire to
essentially provide more tax cuts for
the wealthy while simultaneously pushing
for cuts in funding that we as the
middle-class and working-class have paid
into Social Security and Medicare I mean
he's just so brazen about it and I think
that the Republican Party specifically
those who are never Trump errs are just
worried about the long-term damage that
that honesty is gonna do to their party
yeah Anna Anna I think you're exactly
right
and I appreciate your time as always I
hope we'll do something like this again
soon and I'm gonna I don't know some
point when it's cold here I'll get out
to LA and do a panel with you guys yeah
I would love that thank you for having
me I really appreciate Ana Kasparian you
can of course follow her on Twitter and
everywhere else we'll have links she is
an executive producer and host for the
Young Turks Network Anna thank you so
much thank you
