[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat da
mangiare report with sam c de it is
Friday October 12 2000 18 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA it's casual Friday folks
joining us on the program this week
Heather Parton or dig beam from the blog
hullabaloo and salon also on the program
today straight from his ebay page
matthew film guy will be joining us
ostensibly to give us a film
recommendation for the weekend they will
also on the program turkey claims to
have audio and video of the Jamaal
khashoggi killing and they have
apparently shared it with the US and
double-a-c-p to sue Brian Kemp secretary
of state of Georgia in his vote rigging
plan for his own election convenient
that meanwhile Chuck Schumer does it
again 15 Trump judges get a free pass
you're gonna lose so much you'll get the
second
and Democratic governors races looking
pretty good in Ohio and Wisconsin and
Georgia and Florida Within Reach
court case reveals that Bannon and Kovac
added that census question to intimidate
immigrants 11 people dead in the wake of
superstorm Michael and a climate change
denier confirmed to lead the do J's
environmental division meanwhile Melania
Trump Kanye West battle it out for the
most bullied person in the world and a
reminder our immigration policy is
tantamount to terrorism all that and
more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen yes a casual Friday I am
sitting here I am wearing a soft
collared shirt and Zumba's today yep I'm
feeling very cash and so I wonder if
people I guess everybody else is feeling
a little cash around here to another
week ladies and gentlemen of and things
get insane you know we were talking
before and we're not going to go into
this too much but we were talking before
the program of what's going on in Brazil
and bolsa narrows folks there was a
protest what was the protest called it's
a not him pro it's not him approach that
we get for the election and this was the
election of course that it's not the
final election but the one that is going
to lead to the run around yes and there
was a protest not him basically saying
hey this guy's fascist we don't want him
here and specifically a misogynist that
was woman
was sort of it was woman centered mass
demonstration of all people but with a
focus on his misogyny and so you had a
lot of very sort of I don't say banal
but typical women coming out looking
like school teachers and moms and
neighbors and you know doctors and was
not designed to look provocative or
counterculture right it would say yeah
we was looking trying to look Norma I
guess it would be the word and
apparently I don't know who it was bolsa
narrows people put out pictures of a
different protest called what would the
phenol they do it and we don't know it's
it's the basically they disseminate it
through these what's app groups and so
it's people who support bolson are oh it
could it seems like tactics definitely
that you know bannon's certainly at
least connected to bolster our son bowls
narrow denies that Bannon advises him
but you know whatever there's connection
there and they picked images from I
think it was FEMEN is it called but
basically those are Pro they were
popular it was a big thing a couple
years ago woman from Eastern Europe who
would go and protest events naked there
was also other pictures that they had
just of like you know public like like
women like making out and stuff in
public things like that and they sort of
blasted it across these networks and
said these are the non-heme protests and
so it's just you know on some level a a
silly campaign of disinformation on
another level a very effective campaign
and we see this increasingly in you know
Fox News where there's a lot of times
where they put out a mistake in picture
like oh these are the protests and it
turns out no those are not the protests
or I mean they do this often and I don't
know that they do it in a concerted way
or if it's just an accident we don't
know I mean it's odd that it continues
but broadly speaking we are there i I
have a sin
anyways that we are entering into an age
where this is becoming more of a problem
in this country where the ignorance of
people and we have a video by Paul Ryan
just talking about medicare-for-all
which i think is in some ways a similar
tactic and and certainly i think you
know there are when you have a situation
where the secretary of state of a state
like Georgia disenfranchise is tens of
thousands of voters for an election that
he's running in or when you have a
Supreme Court that refuses to hear an
appeal to a ruling by a court dominated
by Republicans that will essentially
throw an election in North Dakota
very very possibly and there's just no
there's no recourse it's just one of
those things that it's just I don't know
it's um
it's a scary time very scary time yeah
can I just read you two things that this
 said this bolson are oh guy sure
he said to a woman representative in
Congress I'm not going to rape you
because you're very ugly yes uh he also
said I'd rather have my son die in a car
accident than have him dating a guy
right now and that gay children should
be whipped
I mean well so there was clearly that
that protest but the idea being is it is
really more about the ability to
reinterpret for people who are you know
for the average voter to reinterpret
what the reality of any given protest is
oh no this is good so it's been a while
since ero advertised on this on this
program and I'm not sure if it's not
because I have been continually pushing
arrow to friends and family
and maybe I don't maybe they sound like
wait why are we still getting all these
links from the majority report code the
Eero home Wi-Fi system brings you a fast
reliable connection in every room of the
house second-generation arrow an arrow
beacon allow you to build a Wi-Fi system
that's perfectly tailored to the home
more than any ever before in my
apartment I would come in and I would
get in some of my rooms I would connect
to my neighbor's Wi-Fi more than mine
because it was so weak until I put my
arrow in when you add arrow plus you get
a total network protection with the
ability to block malicious unwanted
content across your entire network by
checking the sites you visit against the
database of millions of known threats
Eero plus prevents you from accidentally
visiting malicious sites without slowing
anything down zero plus automatically
tag sites that contain violent illegal
or adult content so you can choose what
your kids can and cannot visit right
from the Eero app milah does not
appreciate the fact that I shut down I
can shut down through my arrow app I can
shut down any device that she regularly
uses so her computer her phone they shut
down at a certain time at night and all
of a sudden she has no Wi-Fi like you're
the NSA it's true I am her personal NSA
you can also get rid of annoying ads and
pop-ups and all your devices ad blocking
improves load time for heavy ads sites
you can browse and stream faster than
ever before I love I honestly I love my
era I've pitched it to multiple people
multiple people apartments I mean I
don't know that many people live in
houses but I would imagine in a house
it's even that much more needed the app
is great I can see all the devices that
are on on the arrow and like I say I cut
my my daughter's access and it's it's
sort of fun get 100 bucks off the ero
base unit in two beacons package and a
year of arrow plus by visiting euro ero
comm slash majority entering
majority a tech out that's ero EE ro
dot-com / majority and code majority at
checkout also one of today's sponsors is
news voice comm / majority look we have
increasing concentration of media we all
live in these epistemological bubbles
where we only get the media that we self
select by via Twitter or Facebook or
whatever it is there's a new media
company that's come up with their own
response to these problems it's called
news voice it's an app for iOS and
Android you can access it for free if
you go to news voice dot-com / majority
and it gives you a personalized news
feed by aggregating a mix of mainstream
media sources international sources and
independent media sources multiple
sources are provided for each news story
left and right the entire app is fueled
by crowdsourcing you can upvote stories
you think are important so people will
see them you can add stories to the app
you can add a source that's missing for
a story it's meant to be a completely
open and democratized news aggregator
that lets you get every side of every
story they also have a video interview
series featuring gas from like Chris
Hedges to aoc go download the app for
free at news voice dot-com / majority
news voice dot-com / majority if you're
watching via YouTube put the link under
this video and of course we put the link
in our podcasts description as well and
finally folks just a reminder Casper is
a sleep brand that continues to
revolutionize its line of products to
create an exceptionally comfortable
sleep experience one night at a time
they have three mattress models the
original Casper the wave the essential
Casper mattresses are perfectly designed
to soothe and cradle your natural
geometry not to mention the breathable
design helps you sleep cool and
regulates your body temperature
throughout the night and it is delivered
right to your door in a small how do
they do that size box with free shipping
and returns in the US and Canada free
shipping the best part of course of
Casper is that you get
sleep on your mattress for 100 nights
totally risk-free you sleep on it you
don't like it send it back no thank you
after all you spend one third of your
life sleeping you should be comfortable
folks you know I am also the proud owner
of multiple Casper mattresses as well as
one that went to a relative of mine so
proof is in the pudding
I mean I don't know what that means in
the context of a mattress but the fact
of the matter is these are the most
comfortable mattresses we have in our
homes this all has one and I have one at
the satellite department now that's
right that's the one that's the one that
yeah it's the satellite apartment people
who have a similar situation as I do
with the separations understand I'm
going to the satellite apartment god
dammit there's no context in which I
would say that look get 50 bucks to show
you yesterday I did not say yes you did
what he said we said you have rigify
no satellite if I did not say that get
50 dollars towards select mattresses by
visiting Casper dot-com slash majority
and using majority a check out why would
I even say that in that convoy you
protesting so much I don't know it's a
very strange thing
Casper dot-com / majority offer code
majority going to the satellite
apartment for $50 off your mattress
purchase terms and conditions apply all
right this is I don't what the the race
in Michigan is pretty tight too isn't it
people company need to get out there and
vote for Whitman look there it's you
know Georgia Florida Michigan Wisconsin
Ohio these are huge huge governor races
that Democrats have a very good chance
to pick up these would all be pickups
and Minnesota seems pretty safe right
now these are hugely important I mean I
just can't I know everybody listens this
program is gonna vote but make sure that
you are aware of at least a half a dozen
other people that you know are voting I
just came up with that metric I don't
know what that means but they can't hurt
it's like pay it forward but for voting
exactly and in this guy in Michigan
Whitmore is a pretty good candidate
she's not she wasn't my choice in the
primary I don't vote there of course but
she's a pretty good candidate and she's
been endorsed by I think Bernie came in
and as also it was heads campaign on her
behalf I think but she is running in in
Michigan against this guy Bill Schuette
I don't know what position he holds now
but the idea that a Republican could win
the governorship in Michigan is a
certain disturbing based upon what we've
seen of the Republican Party in the way
that they have treated some of these
cities like a flint and whatnot but he's
the Attorney General the Attorney
General and so shoot on duty is his is
his Twitter handle which is just mmm and
apparently American Bridge which is a
democratic supporting PAC got a hold of
video from 1989 it is it's unclear where
where the video is from but it was some
documentary or industrial or we don't
know but he is being interviewed and the
woman behind the camera asked him could
you move a little bit closer to the what
they call in the business the practical
that is a light that was on in on camera
and so he shifts down and listen how
creepy this guy is not a flattering look
for this guy and I don't know let's make
an assessment of it afterwards
I would be happy to move closer to the
land I will do anything you want some
things I may not let you run the camera
on but I was certainly happily
there's no easy task I admire your
tenacity appreciate your spirit of
Vincent van Gogh
Rembrandt Toulouse Lautrec oh my god
that's that creepy creepy I can feel the
douche chills going all down my spine
right now this is unbelievable it almost
honestly it honestly like I feel like
you could just show this right into a an
episode of The Office and it would
totally fit in except karela's character
was slightly less like evil or something
like there's nothing really it wasn't
like the unintended grossman of a doofus
I like how he tries really impress her
with like first off she's saying I just
want to put you in a you know a good
framing and clearly the guy doesn't know
any film references so so he instead he
said throws out like art history 101
then got toulouse-lautrec
Oh move closer to the light some message
received
exactly they've been married for about
15 years now whose it was like a cross
between creepy like gonzo porn and
Patrick Bateman like a gonzo porn
starring Patrick Bateman who's who's
Patrick Bay fight the guy from American
Psycho but then again that guy was
actually pretty smooth yeah you have a
great sense of nice on scene shoot that
would have been shoot looked like he was
drunk off of his own horniness yes
exactly like I can't believe how blood
rushes away from your brain I did why he
did seem like he was like high on a
percocet or something uh you know what
I'm remind of I forgot about this until
we played the clip this guy tried to
position himself though against the
Schneider in terms of what happened in
Flint of course he gave well he gave
some like press conferences when that
first broke about people going to jail
and stuff and I remember we played it on
the show we were like this guy
a Republican that he would come out
swinging this hard on this so he's
definitely I mean this creepiness aside
and apparently I guess she's up nine
points in a poll but he's been ahead of
the curve and trying to do like I'm not
like all the other racist right criminal
austerity Republican I mean as a german
general does he have any liability over
what's been going on in that state he
doesn't that well he doesn't have lied I
mean I think he's brought charges
against some people with regards to
Flint but he did not take it to the top
he implied in that clip that he was
gonna take it at Schneider back then
right well he does have a history of
coming out hard so god I appreciate your
sense of music really to me though so
Tunisia brought van guy I think he that
must be like a signal but I think he was
Woody Allen fans somebody it was
somebody should ask him if he's boofed
yet because I think he probably was boof
in right there oh my gosh
alright we're gonna take quick break
when we come back we'll be talking I dig
me
[Music]
you
[Music]
Lou Reed for those who are listening on
the podcast satellite of love well done
Matt folks it's casual Friday and on
some casual Fridays we actually get this
casual that we play this song
[Music]
[Music]
there you go
guru who did that Sun hot Cologne hot
Cologne
I don't know who that is but hot Cologne
doing the Digby song Heather a Parton
Digby welcome back to the program thanks
for having me I'm so thrilled to have my
own song yeah right that's pretty good
one and it's like yeah I can try to
remain quite place that song but I I
know it sort of reminds me a little bit
of squeeze it doesn't I love squeeze one
of my favorite bands of the 70s oh it's
very cool
wait squeeze I love it 80s squeezes
eighties they were around in the late
seventies well I was embarrassed to
admit yeah a lot of insanity this week I
mean probably not that different from
other weeks but this I want to talk
about that there is a report now that
the Turks have told US officials that
they have audio and video recordings
that prove that Jamal khashoggi this is
a Washington Post columnist who is a
u.s. resident he had traveled to Turkey
was going to the consulate in Istanbul
to get paperwork stenciling for his
marriage and he went in never came out
and apparently US intelligence services
had word that that Mohammed Ben Solomon
had the crown prince of Saudi Arabia had
basically personally ordered this guy to
be killed and now the Turkish government
is saying that they have audio and video
apparently they bug everywhere in Turkey
that proves that that you can hear the
guy being beaten the guy being killed
and they have played this
or giving it or made US officials aware
of this I just want to remind people we
played this video yesterday but I would
remind this people this is what Donald
Trump's response was I think it was his
second response to the Khashoggi killing
and this is what his response was in the
White House what good is that to us
there are other things we can do yeah
there'll be something that has to take
place first I want to find out what
happened and we're looking again this
took place in Turkey and to the best of
our knowledge Khashoggi is not a United
States citizen is that right it's a
permanent resident okay we don't like it
John we don't like Plaza for one second
I love how Heather that jump says to the
best of our knowledge what is basically
saying it's like I haven't quite read
into this yeah and then someone says he
was a resident okay yeah right okay well
I guess our knowledge is a little more
updated than I thought get Steve Doocy
on the horn here I need to find out if
he was actually an American citizen
right exactly like would that make his
killing less bad if he wasn't a citizen
no if he wasn't I mean yeah well to
Trump obviously the from their
perspective that is part of their
American first you know in that their
obligations are less if he's just a
resident but I continue and we don't
like it even a little bit but as to
whether or not we should stop a hundred
and ten billion dollars from being spent
in this country knowing they have four
or five alternatives to very good
alternatives that would not be
acceptable to me okay but we're looking
for the answer and I think probably
you'll have an answer sooner than people
think thing yeah right okay so I mean
first off it's not a hundred and ten
billion dollars I think the deal is for
something that closer like 30 billion
but that's irrelevant right the this
calculation and it may be the case that
the Saudis can go to China or to Russia
to buy
the military equipment they want I I
don't know that it would be that easy
for them to do that but I suppose they
could but that calculation of our
American foreign policy I mean here's
the thing
Trump puts it in rather stark terms but
that calculation of American foreign
policy seems to me to have dictated the
relationship we've had with Saudi Arabia
for decades well true that plus the oil
yeah let's not forget that I mean you
know remember and it's wanting to keep
keep in mind as we look at this story I
think is you know remember you know bond
our Bush the you know the the Envoy from
Saudi Arabia that was great friends so
close with the Bush family that he was
called a member of the Bush family your
pictures of Bush going all the way Obama
Clinton you know going all the way back
holding hands with at literally holding
hands with with you know members of the
Saudi royal family nothing new about
that and it's always been concerning
particularly now that we've decided to
really arm up the Saudi Arabian military
so that they can fight our proxy wars
over there which is even more repulsive
than it has been in the past nonetheless
let's not you know try and pretend that
this is business as usual because it
really isn't it has this has escalated
under Trump on in a new direction that I
don't think we've ever quite seen before
and it had to do with two things number
one the president being the personal
arms dealer of the world you know this
is what he considers himself to be
that's a little unusual putting it right
out there in that front going hey man
you know we got money involved here
dudes we got to do it to say this
upfront no no regard for human rights at
all is it change I mean there's always
been you know tension is probably not
the right word to use and there's always
been tremendous hypocrisy there but
there was at least some you know sense
that the United States was going to at
least rhetorically stand up for human
rights the second thing of course is the
fact that Trump himself apparently has a
lot of financial dealings with personal
size
financial dealings with Saudi Arabia
he's on record saying that he gets 4050
million dollars a year from Saudi we
know that Jared Kushner who's great
friends with the new you know more
autocratic young prince who's taken over
the the country Mohammed bin Salman MBS
they call him and he and Jared are big
buds and they you know have all nighters
together and do a lot of back-channel
discussion evidently that's something
that's a little bit different and Jared
Kushner and his family have tremendous
financial exposure apparently they've
been begging for money throughout that
area for a long time and then finally
you have the fact that Trump has is also
on record and has been since the time he
started campaigning and saying he
doesn't care if foreign leaders kill
journalists I mean they asked him about
Vladimir Putin he went hey you know
there's a lot of killing going on right
world we've killed people too so let's
not get too you know fine and fancy here
that that's just the way and he said
that's just the way it is you can't
blame anybody really for looking at the
comments that President Trump makes
about the press over and over and over
again and authoritarians all over the
world are mimicking him now and
believing that he's not going to really
go to the mat if they decide to take out
a journalist who is critical of their
regime so you know we do have some new
elements to this Saudi US relationship
that have taken this to an even more you
know corrupt level than it's ever been
before
how messed up is it that the enabling of
a civil war that's killing hundreds if
not thousands of civilians right you
know the the most recent high-profile
was killing forty schoolchildren on a
bus I mean you know like I understand
why the why the press gets agitated and
and I think like anything that in any
way in inhibits the relationship that we
have with Saudi Arabia I think is a
positive thing
but it's we live in a weird I mean it's
it's just sad to me that the Khashoggi
killing and I understand why right it's
a lot more intriguing than just sort of
the same old same old
oh we're supporting a the killing of
people in Yemen I mean who you know
that's that's old hat but it is sort of
stunning that we can't get as exercised
about that as a society as we can about
one columnist well particularly and
that's you know I mean I do think that
the concerns about you know the safety
of journalists worldwide particularly
considering there seems to be an
escalation of Minister I guess he was
just was at Bulgaria right just this
past week had another horrific you know
rape and killing of a journalist there
who had been in doing some kind of
investigative work on anti-corruption I
mean this stuff is happening a lot let's
just put it that way in these sort of
thorat Aryan regimes it's very
disturbing and of course you know you
hear the echoes of it eat here and
places like Brazil and and other places
where you feel this kind of
authoritarian stuff rising now but what
you say of course is true and this this
the war in Yemen I mean this has been
sort of in the background here for years
this is not something that is unique to
to the Trump administration although
from everything I've been reading
recently they have escalated it or at
least sort of enabled it in in a much
more you know obvious way than they had
than the Obama administration which had
evidently been trying to ratchet it back
in some respects but it doesn't matter
because nonetheless the fact is is that
we've been supplying money and arms to
other countries to fight this war that
nobody really understands it's another
one of those right I mean many do we
have to eV and you'd think you know I
think that what happens is
that people sort of get the idea that
these proxy wars that happen all over
the world that somehow or another I know
is there some theory that maybe they're
letting off steam in small places so
that a big explosion doesn't happen I
mean I don't even know but it seems like
I've been reading about this my whole
life and I'm old so you know this has
been going on for a long long time and
you know maybe one of the you know
things about Trump which is really kind
of perverse is that his America first
his America first philosophy to the
extent that it's a philosophy it really
isn't it's a slogan but somehow or
another it's mixing all that up right I
mean it's at least kind of stirring it
up in a way that people who don't
normally take a position on those sorts
of things are looking at it in a
different way because coming from Trump
it means something different than it has
in the past so maybe that will be a
salutary effect of this trainwreck of an
administration I don't know well I mean
talking about that and just pivoting
from that because you know the the
Cavanaugh the Cavanaugh confirmation and
you know we it was the the the the the
short-circuiting of the investigation
the the withholding of documents
juxtaposing this to the Republicans not
giving Merrick garland a hearing the
implications of Cavanaugh on the on the
court I mean you know we're Neil Korsak
apparently was who's like I don't know
about this permanent detention thing for
immigrants years after they've been you
know gotten some type of you know
parking ticket or something you know
when Neil Korsak is the voice of reason
now on the court I mean the the this
whole Cavanaugh thing seems to me and
and people are writing about it like it
to the extent that and you wrote a piece
that the that there's no there's no
daylight between Trump and the
Republicans anymore I like just the idea
that that there has to be written
like that it isn't that your editor
wouldn't say like come on Heather
everybody knows that right like there
still is this sort of quality there was
nothing about the Cavanaugh hearing
doing a little bit but but just more
almost like literary right if I was
drawing like you know some type of like
it was a literary device oh I know the
thing that can hold this guy up it can
be that he has these accusations of
sexual assault which would be a good tie
in and like a nice reflection of the
president who nominated him but that's
just a literary device but but I mean
putting that aside every other dynamic
about it was purely Republican and
somehow we still have the situation
where like the Republicans are not our
you know like the idea that Jeff Flake
can get up there and say like we should
have someone challenged the president
because what's going on here is not
about the Republican Party and you know
in in in and but but it is but it
totally is Donald Trump is not the cause
of the Republican Party Donald Trump is
just simply an outward manifestation
he's just a you know like a lesion that
is coming from a you know a bigger
disease and the lesion hurts and it's
disgusting and it's problematic but
that's not the root of the problem I
mean we saw it Cavanaugh the whole
Cavanaugh Fiasco seems to me to
exemplify this and in my sense is like
there isn't there hasn't been this our
society has not absorbed that well
there's obviously a deep deep yearning
for this not to be true right I mean and
here's a perfect way of sort of you know
bookending it the the John McCain
funeral in which every but uh you know
look it's the establishment and they
care and you know this is what it used
to be like and oh look George Bush he
handed Michelle Obama
coughs drawn up and and they're just you
know they're look how look how they get
along it's a beautiful thing and this is
this is the way it used to be fast
forward a code you know what two three
weeks
whatever it was and you've got the
Cavanaugh here
and all hell breaks loose we've got you
know protestors in the hallways and
everybody's all upset and you know date
what we find out is that Brett Kavanaugh
who is by the way I mean he's going to
make we're going to be yearning for
Antonin Scalia because Scalia at least
was not a pure unadulterated political
operative sitting on the Supreme Court
he had he was a right winger he was you
know he was a slightly adulterated
operative slightly adulterated operated
but no but he didn't come up that was
pedigree right and he had developed a
philosophy which you know you and I
obviously find odious and somewhat
stupid but it was just originalism you
know we got to get do a mind meld with
you know Thomas Jefferson in order to
understand what the law should be today
all of that but it did exist on a
certain kind of intellectual plane and
Cavanaugh does not come from that he and
in fact he isn't that he's just solely
on that court to advance right wing
the right wing agenda in whatever way
it's necessary to do it I don't think
you're going to find intellectual
consistency in any way from this guy now
that man was basically put on the court
not just by Donald Trump who knows
nothing about you know the Supreme Court
justices or conservative jurisprudence
nothing he put if there was a reason
that he put him on there it was probably
because he figured he got a good loyal
vote for him that he can pardon himself
right that's about the extent of his
reasoning behind it and he could score a
big win the person who put him on that
Court was george w bush and the way he
did it was by lobbying susan collins
over and over again she's a big friend
of the family and they love bret and
he's a good guy and he's one of them so
you know that's where that came from
that that that merging you could see it
right there in that particular you know
the event and it was a huge political
event you know all the sturm and wrong
and and emotion that went into that but
essentially that was the Republican
establishment putting a polite
winged political operative hitman on the
court and that has nothing to death not
Trump
that's them and they pulled out all the
stops to get that done and at the end of
the day when Susan Collins gave her
speech in which she gaslighted the whole
country and was willing to stand up in
front of everybody and make this big big
you know sort of grand statement telling
us that Brett Kavanaugh is not the man
we saw with our own eyes just days
before acting like a you know a petulant
schoolyard bully in front of the the US
Senate no that never happened he's
really a wonderful person he's a great
guy and he's going to be fine and you
know all you people the the protesters
and the special interests and all this
she says she could have easily been
Donald Trump I mean it's her own
particular spin on it but everything she
said in that speech was trumpian and so
you know we see the full absorption of
whatever was tattered remains there were
of the Republican establishment came
together and there they are and I don't
see anybody I don't see it going back in
any way to you I mean win win are these
two what how are these people gonna
gonna retract any of this stuff I mean
this is them this is who they are well I
think they're gonna be able to retract
it if they're if there's no I mean if
there's not a broader understanding of
that's what happened I mean right so a
point in case or case in point I should
say Chuck Schumer once again just
yesterday basically crafts a deal I'm
hesitant to say deal because usually
there's like a there's two aspects of a
deal right the give and the get Chuck
Schumer crafts a deal yesterday to
essentially fast-track fifteen Trump
judges three on three or four on the
court of appeals I think it was these
are all lifetime positions on federal
judge on the federal judiciary
ostensibly it was so that Democratic
senators going can go home and in
campaign and
checked themselves it is the case my
understanding that it would have taken
30 senators to essentially slow down
this process dramatically and that would
have meant keeping every Republican
Center senator in Washington right like
each senator could have been responsible
for talking for an hour which would have
like created or would have you know
created allowed for 30 hours of debate
on each of the the confirm ease or the
nominees and all the Republicans would
have to be there to vote and that's if
Chuck Schumer is not willing to do this
or can't convince his caucus to do this
why should anyone else take the
judiciary seriously like 30 judges with
lifetime appointments have been brought
to the Supreme to to the federal courts
within the last 60 days and Heidi
Heitkamp and and this is also problem
with the media too I mean even the
left-wing media Heidi Heitkamp could
very well lose her race in North Dakota
now because of a ruling by the Eighth
Circuit Court on on on a voter ID case
right it went up to the Supreme Court
for four it bounces back down and it's
the ruling of this of this 8th Circuit
Court that's going to hold there are 11
justices on there 10 of them are
appointed by Republican presidents
including three by Trump there's one
Justice who was appointed by Obama that
justice was the one who dissented in the
two-two-one decision that is basically
going to disenfranchise thousands of
Native Americans because they have a p.o
box on their ID instead of a street
address the there's a there's a
disconnect here there's a disconnect
there's a reason why you can't get the
people on the left to care about the
judges because Chuck Schumer like
there's never going to be a mass protest
against Chuck Schumer to not you know uh
sure in 1530 judges at the wave of a
hand but that it has to come from the
leadership
I mean listen you see well shocking yeah
and by I mean look there were mass
protests just a week ago of people in
the Capitol building
you know protesting against Kavanagh
right and that should have shown that
you know look you've got goodies yeah
you've got a base that's got your back
here Democrats they're here they're
there they're trying to to reinforce
what the Democrats on the Judiciary
Committee were attempting to do you know
which was at least put up a fight at
least show that there was you know that
they were they were working it to the to
the extent possible I don't understand
this I think I suspect that what's
happened is that Mitch McConnell and
Trump - all of them have decided that
they've they've launched this you know
mob mentality thing you know right where
it's the angry mob based upon a bunch of
rape survivors coming and giving
testimony in the hallways and in the
Senate two weeks ago which apparently
was just really frightening to all these
Republican senators they've just
terrified by that angry mob of women
rape survivors and you know that this is
the new thing say oh look they're out of
control they're getting violent they're
doing this you know anything tremendous
case of projection you know the pot
calling the kettle black but nonetheless
I don't think it has to do with they're
not trying to fool their own people into
being afraid right I think that is a
mistake an interpretation of what this
is about what this is about is trying to
Hecht or Chuck Schumer and the rest of
the Democratic leadership into doing
things like what they just did in the
hopes that what they will do is suppress
their own base they're trying to get the
Democrats to behave in craven fashion
and and get scared so that their they
can somehow or another disappoint the
base of the Democratic Party and maybe
you know we let the air out of some of
this enthusiasm I don't think it will
work I think that enthusiasm has a life
of its own and it's not based or
anything Chuck Schumer does but that's
my theory about what they're trying to
do because
I don't think there are no right-wingers
at Trump rallies who were actually
afraid of the left angry mob right that
just goes against a dissonant on how
they think of the left
snowflakes who you know are too
sensitive to to breathe so that's not
really what they're doing they're trying
to get Schumer to do things like this
and by the way that stuff really works
with the Democratic leadership is you
know think oh you better not get out of
hand boys you know you're gonna ruin
everything for yourself and they kind of
go okay you know don't make trouble they
they I think that's I think that's
absolutely right I mean the I I think
there is I mean if you remember the in
the run-up to the the vote for Cavanaugh
the the whole thing look like this is
really bad for Democrats and then it
turns out that no actually the polling
that came in afterwards shows that it's
not bad for Democrats you know like
there there was when we got between you
know September first and really October
first what happens is all of those
undecided all the people who have not
been paying attention they basically
come home and so you know those people
who are naturally going to be Republican
voters they come home and shore up maybe
some places that's like you know I think
what happened with Ted Cruz
you know Texas is a Republican state you
know bado looked really good and we got
all excited about him he still you know
has a chance but because we don't know
who's really going to turn up but those
Republicans are in a very red state and
Texas is still a red state and they're
gonna come back out for the Republican
and I think on some level like I don't
understand how the Democrats don't have
this level of savvy and people can say
well it's not a question of savvy you
know they really want these people on
the circuit court I that to me just
seems far-fetched I don't think that
there's I don't think I know I agree
with you I don't think that's true I
mean it's very easy to develop that
level of cynicism and I'm sure it's true
for some people right somebody struck a
deal somewhere right somehow they're you
know corporate interests you know
will supersede whatever but this is an
existential threat to Democrats the this
court packing that is going on during
the Trump administration it really is I
mean that you know these this is a court
of Supreme Court that had already
overturned the Voting Rights Act and the
case that you just mentioned let's face
it if that had been gone to the full
court with Kavanagh on it the same thing
would have happened right I mean it's
not like he's going to suddenly Strava
have a you know a surge of conscience
and say oh I can't really I don't want
to disenfranchise a bunch of Native
Americans I mean we know where he's
going
so you know this the the situation was
voting and immigration in this country
across the board on a federal level
which of course both of those things end
up being voting in you know in the end
always ends up being a federal issue and
immigration is a federal issue this is
an existential threat to the Democratic
Party there's a reason why they want all
these people on the court and that's
because they want Democrats you know
this this this ongoing sort of
degradation of democracy that we're
seeing with with few a minority rule
being the rule more often people you
know we've had two presidential
elections in the last 16 years that were
despite 'add in the electoral college
instead of the popular vote that only
happened once before in our history back
in the 1800s so you know this is
becoming the new normal that this might
there they are you know I hate to use a
trumpian word but they're rigging the
system and the fact that Democrats are
not you know going to the mat on that
particular issue is an act of political
suicide yeah I mean that just does not
make sense to me I mean this is one of
those things where and it's one of the
reasons why that the Cavanaugh fight was
you know I'm going okay you know at
least start putting the pressure on
going the other direction here you've
got to stop and all that suddenly people
are talking about you know adding seats
to the court and doing various other
things they have to this isn't a matter
of just well you know we don't want to
be we don't want to push too hard here
or that would be uncivil or whatever I
mean they have to do it otherwise look
at what they're doing I mean it's
happening before our eyes and they are
basically setting up
system that will allow them to seize
federal power and in many cases in the
states as well but with minority rule
for as far as the eye can see based upon
these rulings that are that are making
it possible for a minority Republican
Party to nonetheless win elections I
mean that's you know this is something
out of some Banana Republic you know
this is this is something that suddenly
and the Democrats seem to be sort of
blinking and going to you what do we do
and that's crazy it's crazy i I never
thought I mean I was not as skeptical as
Harry of Harry Reid I think it's some
but I never thought that I would be have
this much of a sense of longing for a
guy like Harry Reid frankly I mean I
think Chuck Schumer has made some major
major missteps I mean this is one of
them I think also you know I think we've
talked about this in the past a couple
years ago would be that going into
December and that deal he made where he
thought he was going to get daca and I
you know it's funny because I think it
was why go I can't remember but we had a
conversation I'm pretty sure it was on
this show with a reporter who said you
know by and large the senatorial caucus
is happy with Schumer and that to me is
disturbing too I mean I you know like I
don't I don't know how easy it is to get
rid of a senate leader but but gosh he
just doesn't seem to quite get it well
think about this too I mean Harry Reid
for all of his faults and he had plenty
I mean you know I don't worship the guy
but he came from a state where he had to
actually fight for every election -
right I mean it's in Nevada is a is a
you know it's a swing state at best
often a red state and he had to fight
for every election and yet he had this
you know sort of pugilistic style about
him
and you've got Schumer there he's from
New York for crying out loud I mean he
is the way you know he's not he's not
going to lose his seat right I mean he's
the safest is he can be I think that
maybe in Schumer's case this may be the
one situation you know you and I were
just saying well you know it isn't
really that they're you know thoroughly
corrupt it's that you know they're just
kind of dump in Schumer's case you know
he really has some allegiance to certain
industries Wall Street in particular
that another Democrat would not have
right would I mean this is a very you
know symbiotic relationship between the
senator this particular senator from New
York and the you know big financial
industry concerns I mean and I think
that something Democrats should think
about when they're when they're dealing
with their leadership you know it's nice
to have them in a safe state say you
know district or state I agree with that
that gives them a lot more leeway but it
not if it doesn't give them leave right
right I mean yeah I agree totally well
hopefully we'll start to see some I
don't know where how that happens I mean
I don't know how you know how that
happens but Chuck Schumer is
increasingly problematic and I think
it's anybody know how he because I had
always thought and this is a question I
really should should do some research on
I thought that dick Durbin was the guy
who was next in line to be after Reid
right I mean he had always sort of been
a second-in-command and maybe he doesn't
have I don't know some kind of
leadership quality but I had always
thought he was the guy he's he's more
more you know traditionally liberal than
Schumer is you know somehow another
Schumer Schumer got got the job and I've
always wondered what the dynamic was
there I don't really know and then he
talked about patty murray to who's also
you know a powerful person in leadership
I don't really know exactly why Schumer
ended up in that in that spot it wasn't
a given for years and years right he was
not sort of this you know the the heir
apparent so
it's it's it's an interesting question
I'm sure there's an answer to it I just
don't happen to know it
nor do I but it's a shame it went that
way and I don't know maybe maybe we'll
see an opportunity soon Heather as
always a real pleasure thanks so much
for your time this week thanks for
having me Sam have a good weekend
everybody you too bye-bye
all right folks I'm gonna take a quick
break and when we come back we'll be
talking to Matthew film guy ostensibly
here to give us a film suggestion but
you never know with Matthew film guy
what you're gonna get right life is like
a box of chocolates you never know which
depressing Swedish film you're gonna get
there you go we'll be right back after
this
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar majority report
ladies and gentlemen it is Friday in
almost everywhere that you're listening
although I guess conceivably if you are
listening in Australia it is Saturday
but nevertheless when it is Friday here
in the eastern part of the United States
or Saturday in Australia what we do is
we occasionally have a guest on who will
give us a film recommendation for the
upcoming weekend and this week that guy
is the guy depicted in this song
[Music]
[Music]
matthew matthew film guy matthew film
guy grits ah what what do you have for
us Matthew that could possibly be any
more unbelievable than what we saw
yesterday with Kanye in the White House
is there anything I mean this fiction
well maybe I'm getting ahead of myself
Matthew how are you how's that I'm great
Sam how are you I'm just sitting here in
my epistemological bubble watching
depressing Swedish films there you go
anyone in particular or just do you just
have like a montage like a clip reel of
depressing Swedish films it's just
constant Swedish films only Swedish
actually have I ever recommended a
Swedish film to you people I don't think
so I think you have are we very
surprised
it's kind of a slanderous I think you
know it's about it's borderline rate
that the film guys it's a family that
has multiple lines of incest but really
it's about late stage capitalism but
also incest in a way that you might find
unsettling because we don't know this
week's film is there any geez it's
incest but it's really aren't we all
committing incest in a certain way if
you think about it the way we relate to
our planet's finite resources anyway
this also reminds me of castevet Eve sap
yeah yeah take note everybody if you're
gonna mock me that is the way to do it
there you go
now Matthew but before we get to any
more mocking for the time being yeah and
why not what's that yeah why not go
ahead what um what is what is what's new
with you what are you doing these days
any new interesting projects you work on
this
[Music]
Ted Alexandro was a concert movie
yeah his hour special that finally came
out everybody can go to a TC specials
calm he put it out through the artist
owned comedians collective company
called all things comedy you know
they're sort of like you remember United
Artists what they were for Hollywood
yeah this is what this is what they sort
of started comedian run artist owned and
so his new special senior class of Earth
is out people have heard me talk about
it but really you know you you should
talk to Ted yourself directly and have
him tell you how great it is because all
I can tell you is it I had a great time
working on it Mary and I produced it and
directed it and I edited it it's really
I'm very proud of it it's it's funny and
it's political but it's also just you
know a little bit of lightheartedness
about the shitstorm that is our current
lives Ted on we should have Ted on well
let's see if we can put that into the to
the the machine that we have here and
see if we call that very kind of you Sam
I think that's a great idea
oh wait tell me a little bit more about
this collective or maybe I should wait
and ask him about it it's you know it's
I don't I don't know that much about it
I know that Bill burr and al Madrigal
started it and they basically are kind
of a you know they this is Ted's is
actually their first special so their
first they started out doing albums and
a lot of podcasts they have a big
variety of a comedian podcast which is a
thing and this is their first Laurie and
want to promote any competitor so that's
right forget that no that sounds
interesting to me I did not I was not
aware of it I was not aware of that that
collective I like yeah I'd like to hear
stuff like that I think that's good yeah
it means to me to even if you're not a
huge fan of all the comedian's involved
I think the premise is a great one
morning that's a little red flag II well
look they run the gamut you know Bill
burr and al Madrigal or to high-quality
comedians but there's some lesser-known
names that I necessarily aren't my cup
of tea but they definitely showed their
bona fides where they know they know
talent when they
see it by buying TED special and
producing it and putting it out
themselves so everyone go to a TC
specials calm and check it out right
after you check out my eBay yeah all
right well uh Matthew so what else have
you been doing how long ago did you edit
and and produce and direct that thing
there's no need to mention that but it's
you know it's a process getting it to
the right audience so we shot it last
year and we've been working on it ever
since all right I'm just curious
time for your I just been watching
Swedish movies the whole time since then
so I'm just curious as to what your your
turnaround time for your other projects
are it's a incestual relationship
between a brother and a sister but
actually it turns out to be a father and
a daughter which is sort of the twist
really patriarchy and incest capitalism
film not aligned more comfortable in our
own skin but should we it's about five
hours long I everybody should check now
are you are you teaching at your
Learning Annex thing - yes that we're
gearing up for the new fall section I
wouldn't call it a semester but yeah
we're gearing up for that I've just been
programming that I've got a lot of good
stuff lined up for that films of deep
soul searing truth to spring on
unsuspecting senior citizens of the
Jewish persuasion yes now have you ever
thought about that branching out to like
senior citizens of like non-jewish
senior citizens or just you're just
going to about the whole assorting the
first one I was able to taking a long
time down to my mother's in Boca and I
was able to actually catch up on a lot
of you know as a film guy you amassed a
large list of films that you're supposed
to be seeing at all times and actually
was recently able to get through a
sizable chunk of some of those it's
funny that you you know john benjamin in
his book
failure is an option which incidentally
mas just coincidentally the name of the
script I had written for AMC about five
years ago just total coincidence John
had might be total a coincidence but
John retold a story I was in that book I
finally listened to that book of his and
yeah I was part of like half of those
stories and right I learned that's
amazing
now cranny you allowed to say which
one's not good I don't care I don't know
sue me about my own stories guess that
you know I was in it too
but I'm not necessarily proud of my
contribution that's right he doesn't you
didn't mention you did he know and he
didn't mention you either well he didn't
mention but not in the context of the
the other stories like the story about
the script where we got permission to
write a script about a community like
the one you went to in Boca yeah and we
went down there we had an entree into
the community from his brother-in-law's
dad and we ended up and the brother we
ended up paying the brother-in-law's dad
to write the script for us he was right
and I think a genius-level Andy Kaufman
style idea the five year old Jewish man
from a from a retirement community who
willat the viagra jokes lots of fart
jokes yes he wrote the script and we
handed it in to Conan O'Brien's company
and the the note session was pretty
funny
when they were there when they were
we're basically saying like oh we feel
like you guys are like maybe trying a
little too hard to be funny in this one
what do you mean audio but actually paid
like a significant portion of our fee
and then when we told them that we did
it and John I were just laughing we
thought it was so funny and they were
just like why did you do that
because it's funny we don't wear it no
one has a sense of humor around here we
don't get it we hired you to write a
script and you thought it would be funny
to give us someone else's script that
was bad
yes I actually I'm actually genuine like
a kid no I'm from them I get them being
pissed but I genuinely don't understand
how nobody how they like that is
objectively fun I think it probably
added to our cachet in some fashion like
but these guys are thinking outside of
all the boxes oh yes totally like what
there are no completely whose box is
this but so far outside the box they're
in a different box yeah it was a totally
different box I mean we when we found
him he was directing like I can't
remember what it was it was some you
know with like community theater or
something interpretations of community
theater but exactly it would have been
like you know the schmatta man instead
of The Music Man or something separate
like that but Matthew let's my very
enter yeah exactly
let's leave that diversion are you
working on any interesting project
projects that we might be interested in
no no I actually have a couple projects
that are brewing but I can't really talk
about them right now you know as I'm
always working on my home movie film and
I actually drowse in Boca wound up
running it too for more reels of on
transferred super 8 film my father took
a massive surveillance project how many
hours of footage are you combing through
to making what how long of a movie
because this is something I don't know
for I've been working on this for at
least 15 plus years because I every time
I get off of another project I put a
little time into it I got new sorry
about it
I get news for you you were working on
this pretty sure when we met which would
have been yeah in 2001 all right so now
almost 20 years sure that sounds right
I've been spending money on transferring
it little by little but you know I
always felt like I wasn't mature enough
to make it at the beginning you know I
didn't want it to be some sort of life
you know there's a genre of
documentaries it's like this is how my
parents me up like I didn't
necessarily want to make another entry
in that genre I wanted something a
little more broad or at least
a little more nuanced but I don't know
maybe I'm coming back to that theme as
time goes on but but anyway I found any
more how did you put that how did your
parents I mean just to give me the the
elevator pitch on how your parents
screwed you up and how it's going to be
reflected in this in this documentary
let's see a combination of benign
neglect and over controlling okay and
that mean it sounds to me that maybe the
house you don't like MIT ISM I'm not
sure this is you know this is it's
developing a lot of therapy going into
the making this movie I see so this is
really this is a big-budget film in a
way yes it is the biggest the biggest
the cast of thousands of neuroses and so
what's new on the eBay front anything
new on that front I mean what do you
tell people can go check it out go to my
Twitter at langdon boom and you can see
that I have some stuff listed you know
I'm getting rid of some stuff I've lost
a lot of weight in the past six months
so I'm kind of like moving through some
fat clothes right we're a big man some
guy how have you been doing that
literally just diet you know I got I got
like a scary cholesterol level in
January and the doctors like you've got
to come in right right away and like
massively change your diet so I went on
like a really serious just low fat low
cholesterol low animal products diet and
wound up losing a lot of weight like
literally no exercise even at it or
change I'm sorry but I do have a fitness
tracker weight so so give me a sense of
like what is that diet I'm curious of
what that looks like a low animal print
like I like no dairy I had like you know
steamed chicken and tofu for dinner like
half the nights of the week you know
from the Chinese place just anything
grilled at home with like a teaspoon of
olive oil it was like super serious I've
since led up on that since my
cholesterol got back under control but
you know it was it was mathematics
weight did you lose were lean October
you ten months how many how much weight
well I had already bought by my second
blood test which was in July I had
already lost like 25 pounds and I
I've lost another like 10 since then you
know according to join in Peterson you
could have lost more weight if you had
an a steak diet yes I know it's not
healthy I know it's not about the amount
but I lost 35 pounds in eight months
it's just called diet or whatever but uh
New York strip steaks it was like 57
pounds
thank you lad me for surely so go on
yeah you really want even massive and
also you're surviving this and you're
snoring and all that actually do you
think my snoring was relieved by weight
loss oh yeah that was that will
definitely do it but wait a second he
lost 60 pounds by eating only state well
he first first aid only meat and greens
but in the last six weeks in green with
the greens and he only eats meat now oh
so that's the Atkins diet
it's not even Atkins because Atkins
things like paleo exact it's not even
paleo I don't know you know there's
those especially paleo they actually
encourage you know the paleo paleo does
Atkins no no I kids no vegetables but
not literally just meat I don't think
there's any diet where you the day would
tell you that you could also eat dairy
yeah he went no dairy no eggs he's just
just meat eggs extra rawley's extra raw
please and all sorts of psychic ailments
I've had have gone away to you know what
that is using stop using utensils and
eat with my fins in my epidermis I I did
the ads in the Atkins though in like
1998 or some point when it was cool very
cool first game what did you eat but I
ate eggs and like sausage and cheese we
wanted all fat and protein lots of lots
of chicken wing spam if I recall I felt
like I was on steroids yes Frank what
happened I got I got very aggressive bro
very aggro like I was like like I had a
tremendous amount of energy my heart
rate went up probably like by 15 to 20
percent
like I can just feel my heart like at
any given time I could feel my heart
pumping I'm just like this is amazing
awesome I can't believe I'm a minute why
are we not all in the Atkins diet that
you were high on factory farm animals
fear I'll say something you either you
become any Evangelic um evangelical
about it like I'm just right Wow I
remember like saying like I don't know
why you're not on this diet man I mean
this I've never felt so great in my life
and I remember being at Sundance staying
with it was either it's it was it was
some like a festival and and for
breakfast just like having like six eggs
and like a pound of cheese and it's and
like an entire salami and just sitting
there going like this is the most
amazing thing I've ever felt that's
great my life and then at one point you
start to feel like I'm gonna die
like I just like my my organs feel like
they have like gone through ten years in
the span of like four weeks and you
stopped but I had never felt and my body
reacted very well to it I mean at least
you know like I felt great but yeah
thank you Gary
a medical report issued by the New York
Medical Examiner's Office a year after
his death showed that Atkins had a
history of heart attack congestive heart
failure and hypertension
his widow refused to allow an autopsy
right there you go man did he look good
American thing I've ever heard it
honestly was like it's it it's like
taking steroids I was just like I'm
gonna win I'm gonna eat breakfast and
then I'm gonna go out I'm gonna win
today jog my 95 you can eat my dust
basically Joe Rogan's approach Joe
Rogan's again yes but but the pale paleo
is definitely I did paleo briefly and
you're supposed to eat way more greens
and veggies Oh total so it's not as
insane you don't stay away from
carbohydrates it's you stay away from
processed processed foods so you are not
eating like and their specific oils do
right you have like olive oil
you know smokings olive oil you got to
cook with like like their ochio coconut
oil they're really into the coconut
medium chain triglycerides right right I
so it's different I don't know why
anyone would think that people were
healthier back when they died at like
age 30 right I don't know Rita no no
Chris Ryan leave that know that research
is apparent that that's all belong in
fact that's that you should be into this
that the more cooperative indigenous
societies had actually higher life
expectancy than people write about and
claim and part of the Hobbesian argument
against those societies and undermining
some of their values is the idea that
they that they lived shorter and more
brutal lives that isn't necessarily true
according to anthropological what does
that mean isn't necessarily true I mean
I take everything and both pro and con
like I take all of this with some grain
of salt I'm just saying the idea that is
there a specific type so it's deflated
by like child mortality it's Lea but
when did all in what people who yes but
when they actually lived they didn't
necessarily die at 30 and they actually
had a pretty high and healthy life
expectancy but they passed the age of 60
you're gonna or 50 yeah yeah but then
and then the argument right right yes
well regardless if we wanna solve
climate change people are not going to
be able to be paleo I don't know about
that if you buy locally sourced stuff
but whatever
well yeah but do there's not enough do
there's not enough it's not enough
locally sourced right that's got to go
down a lot so we'll need to reduce meat
production no doubt well make it
chemically
people's lifestyles anyway though well
no of course but yeah how could lab meat
be any more disgusting than eating meat
meat it's not I mean that's what I'm
saying it's like it's it's meat is it's
gross no matter how you get it and I'd
say this is someone who likes disgusting
but what if it's even if it's less
disgusting why of course it's less
disgusting because you don't have to
think about an animal like living in its
own just having to kill it
imagine if you could just grow chicken
nuggets like a chia pet well the fry
part is gonna be the tough part you
would love that wouldn't you man how do
you get it crispy and so uh Matthew
still there hello do you have a critique
of lab meat based off of you know can I
can I tell you how great this is this is
actually laying the groundwork for my
suggestion today because I've actually
personally been what's that perfecto I
had that sense yeah I've actually
started you know I hurted with
vegetarianism and in my youth in college
I experimented I remember but I always
vegetarianism actually lodged the
complaint I think good yes but no
witnesses so but I've actually started
now coming back slowly to you know Mary
is is a not a vegetarian but she doesn't
eat red meat and I've been starting to
kind of think that way
but I saw a film recently that really
kind of pushed me over the edge just in
terms of you know I've now I feel like
my sense of who a person is is expanding
this isn't like an environmental
decision or even a political decision
although it has those ramifications
you know you at a certain point I think
you start to realize like sentient
animals even if they're so delicious
they're kind of like they're you know
they're people they have agency and they
kind of should not be eaten for food and
and I've started to think you know I
also have two dogs and actually maybe
it's weird and it's like that Republican
thing of like until it
happens to you you don't really you know
you can't extend your empathy but it has
happened that just having four-legged
animals around me makes me feel like
every four-legged animal that I see I'm
now extending the same feeling of like
sentience and kind of value inherently
so I'm cutting out eating four-legged
animals and this recently I saw this
film that really just kind of would tip
the scales completely listen Fredrik
Wiseman's meat was it no although that
was definitely a chip in the foundation
of because that is a horrific depiction
of root ah brutal really brutal and it's
in there you know it's in it's one of
the bricks that made up this kind of
pedestal that finally I can see over you
know the rest of my life what it what it
actually means to eat four-legged
animals but I want I want to raise you
up quit before get into this why for
laughs why why are you drawing the line
of four-legged like it well like I said
like I said in brightens your as Fisher
 oh wait a second so your yeah
Birds would kill us if they had the
chance no it's literally it's probably
arbitrary but it just feels like the
first step right there you know like
because I see my dogs and my dogs are
four-legged if I had a chicken there's a
pet maybe I would feel this way too and
it is like I have to admit it's a kind
of selfishness of convenience to not
completely limit it to only vegetarian
why we are as a society anyways a lot of
people are not but the reason why as a
society we're able to eat animals that
are not human beings as opposed to
eating human beings because we feel some
type of kinship like some type of
special kinship with human beings and I
think it's Friday so it's not that
strange to me that you would become that
empathetic although the the interesting
flipside of that is the most some of the
most I don't want to say aggressive meat
eaters but but but but I know a lot of
people who
who live on farms and or or don't I
don't live on like what you would
consider a farm per se but like have you
know a dozen or two dozen chickens they
raise a couple of pigs every you know
they they get them in the spring and
then actually around now they slaughter
them for the winter they will hunt a
deer but they have all sorts of pets
they also have like three dogs and two
cats that live in their house type of
situation yeah it's I mean it's
interesting you know particularly like
in the in the farm world it's just sort
of more like I mean this is not the case
of every farm but in more rural areas
it's just like oh yeah you see that all
the time it's one animal kills another
it needs it yeah I do not think I could
deal with that and that's why I don't
eat meat
except for fish sometimes there you go
like if I couldn't kill it myself no I
don't feel like I should eat it fair
enough
Alec yeah you know I said that that
makes total sense to me and I don't know
I can't speak to sort of what the farm
experience is like I admit I'm
completely removed from where the food I
eat comes from so there is that kind of
like plausible deniability and the more
you understand it I think at least for
me the more I'm disgusted by it and and
it is that like you said that sense of
of kinship you know and you know it's
funny you guys somebody I think it was
when Michael was hosting you mentioned
Ken Wilber and his kind of like levels
of development and and I'm reading this
book he wrote about the era of Trump in
the post truth world and his whole thing
is like this spiral dynamics where
you're kind of growing from one stage to
another and each one is sort of more
inclusive about who you feel is in your
in-group so at first it's just you know
it's just you then it's your family then
it's like your maybe your religion in
your country until eventually it's like
everybody and I and I feel like adding
animals to that is kind of where we're
sort of going you know like that makes a
lot of sense yeah that makes a lot I
think it's quite possible 50 years from
now 60 years now people will look back
on
animals in the same way that we look
upon slavery what people will be looking
back I kind of say we're done so baby
well part of how we're gonna not be
dunzo is ramping out meat production I
may be getting some really good meat
substitutes because like vegetarianism
is gonna be a hard sell for a lot of
people that is I think you're ready
it was super neoliberal market oh no
we're gonna democratically plan
production don't worry
production the state should be financing
all of that right now the state is well
it's like everything else the state
starts it and then it's privatized
that's how it works so math you know to
your pick yeah so it's written it's the
films that Netflix produced called okiya
has anyone heard of it okay
it's like a jet isn't Jon Ronson really
somehow involved in this
don't you mean Oakley no that is the
Southern Fried delicacy vegetable which
is delicious I'll say it Indian
delicacies but no this this is by a
Korean filmmaker bong joon-ho he made
movies like snowpiercer
and some other kind of sort of dark
sci-fi type movies and this is I think
one of the most incredible movies made
in the past 10 or 15 years it was
released directly by Netflix and it has
amazing actors in it that you know like
Tilda Swinton Paul Dano Steven Yeun from
Walking Dead Jake Gyllenhaal and it is
in a mixture of English and Korean so
it's kind of a multi-national production
but it is one of the most affecting
movies about factory farms I guess you
would say but it's also that's sort of
selling it short because it is a kind of
like if Spielberg made a film about the
horrific conditions of factory farms so
it's got this kind of sort of idealistic
side to it but also this really cutting
sort of sardonic sarcasm kind of you
know satire side
to it and I just want to read you a
quote from the director who who I think
is amazing this quote he said when
making this film films either show
animals as soul mates or else we see
them in documentaries being butchered
I wanted to merge those worlds the
division makes us comfortable but the
reality is that they are the same animal
and and lead later in this interview he
gives goes on to say all of our problems
arise because of capitalism I was going
to get there it brings pleasure but also
so much pain and unhappiness the
questions I ask in my films about why we
harm the environment or animals all
comes down in the end to capitalism so
and again it's going to sound I make it
sound like it's this like intellectual
political statement it's this highly
emotional affecting hilarious movie and
it's basically about this kind of super
pig that in the future this is sort of a
not-too-distant future kind of movie
that is developed by this corporation
run by Tilda Swinton's a sort of
mustache twirling CEO and it's about you
know the the fight of these both the
owner of the pig who raises it and the
members of this sort of corrupt but sort
of well-meaning Animal Liberation Front
group who tried to free it and I don't
want to tell you any more about it
because it is just madcap but it is also
one of the most just tear-stained
viewings I have had in a long time it is
it is devastating when you start to
really fall in love with you know the
most charismatic animal ever to grace
the screen and it's a CGI creation but
oak jaws is I mean obviously yes it is
as good as babe and but it's got this
sort of sci-fi political sort of satire
to it which makes it to me a cut above
your normal animal love that actually
sounds it sounds extremely relevant to
my interests that sounds mean oh well
good good reminds me the way and I think
it really affected my choice of what to
eat I like all four legs no-go that's
that's my new phrase have you ever been
to the Farm Sanctuary and Woodstock
I have not it's pretty cool if you want
another emotional experience with
animals
I highly recommend it I'd rather my
experience is mediated by the screen but
I might do that if you go back and find
the that's series that I did
about six or seven years ago I think
it's still on our youtube channel the
picture of all I did the opening yes
that picture of the bull is from the oh
yeah Animal Farm Sanctuary up there okay
interested mister fans of that
now I guess I you know I guess I respect
that I exploited that poll but not the
worst way it could have been exploited
but yes not the worst but I was up there
it's a very cute place to go up there
kids good for the kids tough to eat a
pig after that well I got to say okay
it literally there's like a demarcation
in my life before I saw okra and after
so that if that's enough to recommend it
to you I say go bats they're like put me
down for a definitely not watch like
Matthew burgers you you are yeah you you
I mean I feel like you sold that movie
to Jamie and I I'm I'm going to watch
that as well is it do I want to watch it
with the kids or no well listen the kids
it could change their lives like I it
will definitely be affecting so it is
dark you know there are some scenes that
are like just very hard to watch I can
love an animal you know so it may it
depends you know I usually like to
recommend the most horrible things for
you to watch with your daughter this one
I may say just check it out first
yourself alright well another another
thing I just want to say just to sell
you on the filmmaker he you know he move
II take yes for an answer for god sakes
alright watch out you're right I'll save
it watching it watching it and we've got
her up there I it looks intriguing I
like I just wanted to tell you that he
hates his parents and and he puts that
in the movies too so all right sold sold
all right well done it's about not
eating animals and hating your parents
I'm gonna rights that immediately at the
satellite apartment and how do you
spell that okay J a okay J a yes long as
you know okay J a and alright well
Matthew film guy as always a real
pleasure why don't you talk about your
eBay page one more time so that people
can get over there what is the what is
the the most exciting article your
top-line article that you have on the
eBay page right this moment
well I i've sadly decided to let go my
brand new with tags Christmas gift that
I got from Mary adidas Cleveland
Cavaliers number 23 LeBron James same
type that he wears in the games tank top
and shorts said hi you can get it for a
living
cuz you know what I don't go around
dressing up like my heroes like it's
just not my thing
like I love watching basketball I love
the bronze but it's before Halloween
there's your Halloween cast you're
LeBron Jubran yeah I you know I don't
know I it's just something I don't
Jersey it's just not my style
no you put it on there what that does
Mary know you have it on eBay she is not
happy about it I would bet wow you're a
prick man Jesus Wow and that's coming
from Michael definitely I wanted to go
to someone who can not only give it a
good home take care of it treasure it
because it was it was my bad gift with
somebody in the rest of the country like
to have it give it an attic home because
I'll treat it with consistent contempt
and disrespect cuz I don't wear my
heroes jerseys well I'm watching damn
you should feel my brother incest that
are really better I'm glad I graduated
into the Saul Rosenberg voice to I
really feel great about that
welcome aboard you did when you were so
convinced that's right thank you so much
today at the appreciate it buddy it's
always funny
thank you Sam take care guys hi hi yeah
I really want to see the only guy sounds
really do we have a Jimmy reefer cake we
have a Jimmy ray reefer cake into Adam
Marine rain stopper okay oh yeah well
how these guys hook up do we know that
yeah I don't think we know the behind
the music power do I
lennon-mccartney we need up behind the
music all right let's uh let's let's
let's see it what's it called its called
Saudi Arabian killers by Jimmy bin
reefer cake and Adam all rain stop Wow
way I like it already
[Music]
- Liam
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
all right do they go I mean I Michael
want you a fact checking of the song it
was Abdullah that we vowed to not MVS
unless there's additional photos
Abdullah gave them a fat MC Hammer style
chain
yeah maybe jimmy reefer cakes got access
to some info that we don't have and I
was that definitely citing tulsi gabbard
and and and and Rand Paul as if they are
sort of lone dissenters in our support
for Saudi Arabia I think it's slightly
inaccurate the in 2017 the Senate vote
to to not to to not sell half a billion
dollars worth of missiles to Saudi
Arabia was 53 to 47 there were about
four or five Democrats who I think
defected to the Republican side and I
think Rand Paul was one of the
Republicans if there were more than one
I think it was maybe only one Michael II
might have defected on a - but Rand Paul
but why don't why don't you say listen
to Chris Murphy and Bernie Sanders
Bernie Sanders has been speaking more
clearly on Saudi Arabia than anybody and
what they were fee to be honest with you
has been there for a long time in terms
of likelihood I mean you know terms of
like his that's his one trip and not
gonna say that's his one trick but that
has certainly been his trick Murphy is
very good and but I just think it's
really enraging to me that especially
now with this whole nonsense with Tulsi
Gabbard when Bernie Sanders really
actually is he is starting to articulate
and piece together a full left foreign
policy I mean Tulsi Gabbard has nothing
to say about Lula she has nothing to say
about refugee she has nothing to say
about global oligarchy I get that she's
like a hero to the dumb-dumbs but
there's still some problems there I will
I will also say that even the house in a
way I guess this isn't in 2007 that was
when the Democrats controlled the house
had voted to cut off age Saudi Arabia I
remember I remember
do you ever went on did you must have
you did it by accident there's a ghost
in the machine I remember also when I
remember I told you when our mansion was
on with jank and jank was asking him
about funding the Saudis and he's just
like tell you what Jenks here's what
I'll say about that I don't think they
talk about tickle who talk about
collateral damage it's not it's killing
men women and babies that's wrong I
don't believe in that term that's about
killing innocent people but I thought
Jenks you know if we had US advisers
telling them how to use these weapons
that'd probably be a good argument maybe
an opportunity to use them safer so
thought it'd be better that we're part
of the process
constructive engage get so you know if
here if we're not there with Boeing and
Lockheed Martin I don't think we're
doing anything to help make that
situation better there Jenks and I say
you know read on the field that off the
field whether it's the Supreme Court or
setting up a cholera outbreak out there
in Saudi she's got anything for else for
me goddamn Turk could I go all day I
don't give a match it is BS artist
that is why he wins all right folks
we're gonna take a quick break just a
reminder this program relies on you its
audience for its support eight when you
become a member not only do you get the
extra content you get the the free show
commercial three so today you you were
treated to three commercials if you're
free listener but if you were not if you
remember we would be nine minutes right
now you'd be nine minutes into the fun
half and I'm gonna tell you right now
it's gonna happen in the fun after we're
gonna take some calls but I'm also gonna
go through Paul Ryan's complete like the
way that this dude lies about Medicare
it shows the the Republican desperation
but they have had luck with this in the
past folks you remember the ACA oh this
is exciting because the Paul Ryan
material is going to lead to a new
a second plug for Sam's new book as well
was blaming the electorate Oh Yancy
Michaels very excited I am excited about
that and alright but so that's what
members are gonna get so you'd be nine
minutes into it you've already heard
that if you remember by now I don't know
that's gonna work in terms of time I
can't quite figure that out but folks
join the majority report calm it is
literally pennies I mean a significant
number of pennies not I mean so many
pennies that you probably wouldnt want
to walk around with these many pennies
in your pocket so in a way we're doing
you a favor when you become a member of
the majority report we're leaving you of
walking around with 50 pennies in your
pocket every single day you are welcome
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off folks today is
Friday that means that yesterday was
Thursday the day that preceded that
would have been Wednesday if I am not
mistaken the day before that is Tuesday
Tuesday has a night on Tuesday night is
the Michael Brooke show and who was here
on Tuesday night Alex Perrine oh you had
the sniffles too right no no sniffles
well not from my show right and actually
I didn't even need to do sniffles
because I texted you to say I was out so
I was fine here's a little I'll give you
a little tip folks if you're calling if
you're a texting yeah your boss to say
I'm not coming into work don't put
parens COFF in between the kick off
actually works the phone like I can't
commit you don't right coff coff coff
comma in parens tie right cough cough
sniffle sniffle week see you later yeah
it's real bad we talked about what the
Democrats would do if they actually
wanted to win the long right-wing grift
that's blown up in all of our faces this
coming Tuesday and Noah Changa is gonna
be on we're talking on the from a ground
perspective on the Georgia gubernatorial
race voter suppression grassroots
campaigns across the country and this
Sunday for patrons in elicit history of
the Congo Civil War going back to the
assassination of Patrice Lumumba with
Milton al-ahmadi whose crew and Africa
scholar patreon.com slash TMDs and Jamie
so on this week's episode of the aunty
Farah we have a dialogue between doctors
bones the Blumenfeld
about the og spook Buster himself Max
Turner there you go and for our patrons
as a special bonus we have a bonus that
just dropped today where we get a little
bit personal with our Fred Jacob who's
an expat living in Berlin we talked
about how he triggered none other than
Alex Jones glenn beck and steven crowder
with his translation of the book
communism for kids as well as his
gorillas reading of the coming
insurrection at a Barnes & Noble and
Matt literary hangover literary hangover
the completion of Volume one of hope
Leslie will be out tomorrow it's a
three-hour one so if you're looking for
some fiction to listen to you can have
it you can listen to me read it to you
that's it that's only if you're a
patreon at patreon.com slash literary
hangover alright folks gonna take a
quick break ahead into the fun half see
you there six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty or you can I am the
show through our app which is still
hopefully we're waiting for iTunes to
okay it soon
you
[Music]
you
[Music]
we are back just got an email somebody
want us to point out that okay uh not on
DVD only on Netflix not sure why they
felt so strongly about that but they did
and that is got some DVD representers
accurate does Netflix not send you DVDs
in the mail anymore they do but not all
of them are available on DVD calling
from a two one zero
area code who is this where are you
calling from
good afternoon Sam is John from San
Antonio hello joy and I'm doing well how
are you John okay alright the last call
the last call on Wednesday said did any
eligible voter in Texas can vote by mail
this is incorrect information you can
only vote by mail if you're 65 or older
if you're disabled or if you're going to
be away from your voting location on
November 6th and the period of early
voting which is about two weeks so if
that's the case you need to inform your
County voter organization and request a
mail-in ballot all right fair enough
okay sorry okay feeling occurence all
right fueling increased speculation
about an upcoming 2020 run a
presidential run Bernie Sanders is
starting a nine state tour will be
coming for Democratic candidates some of
the some of the states that he'll be
going to is our Iowa and Indiana will
host a pair of town halls about cuts to
Social Security he'll be campaigning for
a Mar camp in the jar who's running in
the 50th district of California and he's
been within the margin of error in three
of the last four polls he's running
against a Duncan Hunter who's been
indicted on 60 counts of felony crimes
including fraud facing it let's be fair
John wasn't it is y fault wasn't that
what Duncan Hunter said under the bus
about that I listened to his interview
actually persuaded he's actually both of
it have been indicted so and is facing a
new round of election fraud charges over
filing forms that where he claimed he
didn't know members of his extended
family work you know according to the
San Diego union-tribune so Bernie will
also be stumping for Mike Levin who's
endorsed by the progressive change
campaign committee and is the
overwhelming favorite to win in the 49th
District in California currently held by
darrell Issa currently had this race as
the seventh most flippable district and
as a must-win for democrats he's had a
couple recent double-digit leads and
polls and the National Republican
Congressional Committee has uh taken
their money from this race so
essentially it's it's over so so on
October 22nd Bernie will be in Wisconsin
endorsing Tammy Baldwin and Randy Bryce
he's also stumping for our revolution
endorsed a JD Shelton who's running
against the odious racist Steve King who
won this district in 2016 by 23 points
and his last poll King is only up by six
points and Democrats are favored to pick
up seats and two seats in Iowa that the
first in the third District so Iowa
might flip from a three one Republican
advantage to a 3-1 Democratic advantaged
so Bernie's also something for Liz
Watson in Indiana 9th district and you
were talking about Jairus Poulos who's
running into the governor in Colorado
he's rated 104 on progressive punch in
72 among the the Trump of voting record
he says 72nd as far as the best
Democrats voting so essentially he's
more of a centrist Democrat a little bit
surprised Bernie supporting him but you
know he said he's good on many issues
it's also like you were talking about
Gretchen Whitmer he's also going to be
campaigning for her she's had a lead of
about 10 points and polling and should
be a pretty easy victory for her David
Garcia who's running in for governor in
Arizona is kind of
the opposite situation he's been down by
about 12 points in his run so that's a
pretty hard task there big surprises
there
Bernie's thumbing for conservative
Democrat Jackie Rose and it has a
terrible voting record but is a crucial
must-win race if Democrats have any
chance of winning the Senate so if you
want to comment on anything and then
maybe I can talk a little bit about the
house odds if you want to well comment
he's a sellout well I know I
mean I was actually gonna comment on
that on that that race as well I mean
look the the reality of the reality of
our our situation is is that we need
more Democrats in the Senate if only to
take one or two votes you know I mean
literally to make a difference in one or
two votes to slow the tide of I mean
this is what what's so infuriating to me
and I know you didn't bring this up
about Chuck Schumer it's like the idea
is that the value of having the Senate
really is well there's more to it than
this as well but the value to having the
Senate is to stop this flow of judges
and you know it seems pretty
short-sighted to increase the flow of
judges to stop the flow of judges I
understand the theory I just think it's
I think it's wrong in this instance but
so good for Bernie I mean he understands
the the value of that I mean and it's
his way of basically saying I realized
that you know horses can't fly and that
there are certain realities to
governance that is it cannot be just
everyone is not who I want them to be
and that's the bottom line I mean you
know Harry Reid came in to the Senate I
don't know if he actually came into the
Senate with this but was you know
anti-choice
and he sucked it up he didn't vote that
way is a and didn't function that way as
a senator but I mean he was anti-choice
essentially and so Rosen's important to
beat Heller in Nevada I'm sorry it's
just the reality yeah I mean I'm a
little bit surprised that she would
actually have him campaigns and you know
for him because you know it's just you
need all the negative things that we all
know are false about Bernie you still
pop it I mean you know yeah yeah that's
true that's true that's probably why
it's not just that - because she it is a
recognition that she needs union members
and she needs the base that come out I
mean that's the that's the dilemma for
you know some like you know for I think
that's why I'd camp voted against
Kavanagh because she made the
calculation that the loss of the base
would be far too devastating and I could
not overcome that I might be able to
overcome it with some of the marginal
people from the Republican Party but I
cannot overcome it with the the
Democratic base I need them fully
engaged and motivated and if you know
like we're on the right track if that's
the calculation that people are making
if Jackie Rose and knows that she cannot
get elected without the base of the
Republican Party and to the extent that
there's any concern at least some
conventional wisdom that you would
alienate you know potential independent
voters or swing voters or Republican
voters by having Bernie Sanders there it
means that she understands that even if
that's the case it's more important for
me to deliver the labor base
particularly in Nevada to to come out
and you know not just vote for her but
to sort of organize for her but John as
always appreciate the call buddy all
right thank you I could vote at a
 fear the reason horses can't
flies because of fear
well that's probably true I mean it's at
least partially part of Oh Wilbur don't
jump off that cliff I don't know I say
jump off the cliff maybe then
you sprout wigs then we fly Jim
we're not caught in the state
I'm a man but not just me but I don't
make decisions mothers Mother's I mean
necessity is the mother of invention
imagine if you jump off the cliff you'll
develop wings well that is the idea
right
I guess I imagine a Pixar movie about
bison and they're all being chased off
of a cliff and Jimmy there's a Jimmy
door business like now I it'll be fine
let's just run over this thing and fight
from down there all right let's up no no
he's like a bird on a tree only them to
do too early in the in the fun half to
get to something like this right now I'd
go on a divergent because I want to get
to this Paul Ryan stuff so it is clear
that the Republicans are afraid of
medicare-for-all not just there they're
not afraid I mean of course they're
afraid of it as a a policy prescription
but it has incredible salience as a
political issue right Donald Trump gets
out there writes an op-ed full of lies
here's Paul Ryan getting up in front of
the National Press Club I guess this was
yesterday also delivering out the lies
and I have to say that like I want you
to be very careful as I mean listen
carefully to how Paul Ryan juxtaposes
these sentences like he is playing off
the ignorant that is not only in the
Republican Party but frankly across the
electorate as to what Medicare is you
know we we've heard those stories or
Republicans are saying you know get the
government off of my hands off of my
Medicare and this is more of that
in many respects and it is incumbent
upon all of us in media outlets and and
to explain that governments not hands
and not only all over Medicare
government its entire body is all over
Medicare it actually emanated from
government your communion with
government indeed and here is uh Paul
Ryan lying in practicing you know how
Republicans you can try and push back on
the idea of Medicare for all they now
call it Medicare for all because it
sounds good but in reality it actually
ends Medicare in its current form posit
now Paul Ryan years ago came out with a
proposal to privatize Medicare and the
Democrats pushback by saying it's not
Medicare and Paul Ryan said no I call it
Medicare and the press also sort of
bought well he does call it Medicare it
is Medicare it's just changing it and
people were like well but the essence of
Medicare is that it is government
provided health insurance and if you
privatize it it is no longer that so it
is not Medicare in its present form it
is expanded Medicare I mean this is why
like you know when you know there is
value in in sort of the the way you
present this stuff like Medicare for all
could just be Medicare Part A let's say
we're gonna call it Medicare Part A
Medicare for all I mean just so that he
can't do these rhetorical tricks because
people frankly are not savvy about this
Q my book blame the electorate but I
continue with the Paul Ryan it ends
private insurance all together alright
basically so he juxtaposes it's not
Medicare as we know it it ends private
insurance as we have it all together
implying that Medicare is private
insurance now there is
there is a component of Medicare which
is private insurance that is the
Medicare Advantage program and that was
shrunked for the from the ACA because
they were getting overpaid but the
service is delivered we're not shrunk
and Medicare for all incidentally it's
very unlikely that it would end all
private insurance there could
conceivably be private insurance that is
issued in as a supplement to Medicare
for all certainly we have that in places
like France just about every place that
has a medicare for all type program a
single-payer there is a supplemental
private insurance if people want that
wealthy folk it's called Bupa in the UK
apparently Bupa I'm not sure what stands
for the British something okay but so so
but again medicare for all resolves a
lot of the issues of betting the almost
the idea of Medicare for all is to get
rid of private insurance but correct it
ends private insurance all together
including for the roughly one hundred
eighty million people who count on
health insurance coverage through their
employer everyone no matter how much you
like your plan would have their plan
taken away instead you will be put into
a government-run plan where you have no
say in the cost or in the coverage posit
oh well you do have a say in the cost
insofar as it won't cost you anything
now you could theoretically say I want
it to cost more but that would be very
atypical of an individual and in terms
of the plan there is no plan there's
you're not there's no plan insofar as
you're not limited you get to see all
doctors because they all take Medicare
because what else are they going to do
continue Obamacare meant fewer choices
Medicare for all means no choices no
competition posit that's right you won't
have to make any choices it will you'll
all you'll just be able to do what you
want to do in terms of seeing your
doctor Obamacare
limited choices because it's based on
the private insurance how much do you
get charged for this that's a good
question a nonpartisan study found that
a spas approach a great question because
you won't know what you're gonna get
charged for it because you're gonna get
it zero is the answer you'll be charged
zero maybe there will always be like
copay like a $20 copay I think when I
was in Australia visiting Australia 20
30 years ago they had a similar style
program and I'd go see a doctor and I
have to pay like twelve bucks
I wasn't a citizen I was just going in
to see the doctor nonpartisan study
found that a single-payer program like
this would cost the government a
whopping thirty two point six trillion
dollars over the next ten years just to
put the price tag of this idea in
perspective posit let me let me put it
in perspective for you
the Mercatus study that he's referring
to Mercatus thirty two point six
trillion dollars over the next ten years
I will be able to put that into
perspective for you that is two trillion
dollars less then that study says we
will as a nation spend on health care if
we don't go to a single-payer thing so
it's it's just it is almost like eight
percent less we'll have eight percent
savings on what the national cost the
not the the nation as a whole private
and public sectors will expend on health
care so it's a it's an eight percent
savings how's that for a perspective
we could double all federal taxes yours
mine families businesses everyone's
taxes and still not be able to pay for
this the only way you could control cost
would be to ration care and restrict
access to doctors and treatments all of
these decisions would be made in
Washington of course this is absurd
whatwhat does that mean ration care in
this context the care is there it's not
there's not there's nowhere else to go
you're not saving it for anybody else
does he think that care isn't rationed
now by the market care is of course
rationed now and what he's talking about
is you're going to actually buy
rationing it means like the doctors may
not get paid as much get plus the costs
would go down because when you have one
payer right the government they can say
they can tell the drug companies to
charge less and they don't have a choice
like dealer No Deal
the ration the the rationing is first of
all I think he's lying about the double
the federal taxes I think if you double
federal taxes I think we pull in about
three point five trillion dollars
annually somewhere around there and I
think people can do the math 10 times
3.5 is actually 35 trillion dollars now
of course people will be saving more
because they expend that in terms of
private care but that doesn't even
imagine like the increase in
productivity that we would get under a
single pair I mean I don't know how many
hours a week a month to someone spend on
dealing with their health care four five
six hours a month maybe more what about
all these the doctors and all the
paperwork I mean the anxiety - any
anxiety anxiety but there's a Paul Ryan
they are nervous about the the not only
the policy of medicare-for-all but they
are nervous it is a winner for Democrats
and that is why I would imagine I don't
know this for a fact but anecdotally I
think probably a majority of Democrats
running for office now are are embracing
Medicare for all what what that means
individually to each one of them I don't
know but that is a nice starting point
for this election well in the lead-in to
the Trump call on Fox and Friends
yesterday I think one of the Fox and
Friends said that it was the number one
issue basically everywhere health care
is is the issue that everybody seems to
be running on finally and this is so
much better than the ACA was because
some of those Republican attacks on the
ACA stuck
they were valid it was still really
expensive to get health care in the
marketplace and it didn't cover a lot
like I didn't like my plan that I could
only afford because full disclosure my
parents were helping me pay for it that
I was forced to buy like it sucked so
like you can't make those attacks on
Medicare for all it's so simple and it's
so clear they're they're I think
extremely nervous
of something like that being rolled out
V spa hey girl swipe right I have a
toulouse-lautrec clown costume that
incorporates a $200 Wyatt koch Hawaiian
shirt my satellite apartment where I can
sit on my Casper mattress and drink
cider well I read you my charlie Kirk
debate point flashcards do you see
Paterno of caca tude plans to talk about
ethics investigations to Cavanaugh
Merrick garland recused himself for the
Cavanaugh's ethic violation they gave it
a Roberts who sat on it until Cavanaugh
was confirmed he then forwarded to the
tenth districts Tim Mik ovitch is on the
same short list Cavanaugh was on and was
appointed by Bush in 2003 guess one who
was White House Counsel Cavanaugh who
helped Tim vich get his seat on the
bench
another sham investigation what does a
guy have to do to do to get a Jamie
Thursday left his best smashed the fash
down with the patriarchy tune into the
anti Fattah contagion
chameleon is H john benjamins book
there's a character named Bart cedar who
vomits from drinking several times their
Beach week at raviga Beach is this
character meant to represent you Sam
I have no idea what you're talking about
California uber Ollie's the Jordan
Peterson diet you're placed in a cage
alone with the deer outside the cage is
your government assigned female
copulation partner wearing a traditional
German Trindle you must use your primal
hierarchical urges in the power of myth
to dispatch the deer with your bare
hands and claim your lady prize sizzle
chest I've recommended it before but
please check out the gateway bug see why
our food production is unsustainable and
the importance of including insects as
protein sources weird and futuristic so
cool to think about how we'll eat in the
near distant future it's streaming on
prime right now Jeff from Oliver with
Sam the other guy in John Benjamin's
devil triangle threesome story no it was
not me I know who it was there is
actually a story like this oh yes I
don't know it's in his books disturbing
I would I'm not gonna read it
remember him calling me almost
immediately after that sab I gotta share
this with you I don't remember who the
woman was but I do know who the guy was
and I've seen the guy at a reunion not
this most recent one but one nice way to
go and I will say I will say this too I
don't want to reveal too much but when
the guy told me what he was doing I you
know he told me that like five or six
years ago and then Benjamin came out
with a story I was like oh good I mean
if that guy in any way felt in any way
like what the guy was doing was like
basically exporting the worst of
security measures to repressive regimes
oh god yeah yeah oh and he was really no
attorney Andrew yesterday I listened to
many Hassan's interview of ROH Khanna
Jeff Merkley Nina Turner and Symone
Sanders on the deconstructed podcast he
asked the panel how they'd approach
court packing you know what Roe kana had
a great thread on this on Twitter and I
and I would like to talk to him about it
in response wrote kana hurriedly
suggests that Cavanaugh other judges
don't need to be impeached because
simple legislation Congress could just
move them to a lower court he proposed
by making artificial term limits with a
simple legislation by saying once you
reach a certain term you get moved to a
certain
Circuit Court that's a great idea that
strikes me is unconstitutional because
the Constitution is pretty clear
lifetime appointments to the Supreme
Court but needless to say I like the
creativity wait a second does the
Constitution say lifetime appointments I
don't think so not that I'm aware of
they could add term limits without
amending the Constitution I believe
somebody check on it
Bernie's plan has no co PI's it's a
hundred percent free at the point of
service hell yeah Auto to chat Sam and
crew check out chapo tribal houses
YouTube video on conservative cartoons
and cartoonists hilarious peace and good
listen one can learn a lot for
conservative humor or the lack of a good
show
loud what's going on here loud loud
Bob's natura you guys better stop what
you're doing and watch trailer for okhta
it's totally relevant to our interests
the Constitution provides that judges
shall hold their offices during good
behavior but it doesn't say anything
more specific than that and does it say
on the specific court maybe that's the
idea that ro Kahana has is that if you
keep them in the judiciary the nature of
their jobs is not I mean their nature of
the you know as long as they're still a
judge I don't know
Sam's tender bye oh hey girl you've
heard me talk about caste for sleep
system swipe bribe if you're interested
in another package that double int okay
call from an 8 for 8 area code who's
this where you come from
Shawn could you stop talking in the the
cup that you're talking to could you
talk to us on your phone please
sure ma'am okay thank you so I saw the
interview with Professor Carol Anderson
at the beginning of the week thought it
was great stuff Thank You Ben
yep thank you okay so I was thinking
about as a counter to some of the voter
suppression we're seeing as compulsory
voting how do you feel about that
what kind of hurdles would we have
effect on the Supreme Court well I mean
it could be the Supreme Court frankly I
mean I I think it could be the Supreme
Court I don't know I I don't know why
you couldn't pass I mean I guess you I
mean I guess you could structure it very
similarly to you know some type of tax
like you're subject to that you get a
rebate on that tax if you vote and I
mean if you can do that if you can
compel a you know if you can compel
people to buy private a private product
to actually expend money on on on health
insurance in in in the form of it being
you know sort of a a tax rebate
essentially your deduction if you get
the health insurance then I don't know
why you couldn't do that with voting I
I think compulsory voting would be good
if we if we combined it with moving it
to like a weekend and metal and or all
no and I should say also allowing for
early voting or perhaps you know voting
by mail so I'm I'm all for that that's
good just removing all of the measures
that keep people from voting who would
be quite helpful on the way to their -
don't you think
shawn is doing obstacles to voting but
yes no we're so we're so far away we
have like the opposite of that right now
appreciate the call Shawn appreciate the
call I I don't see why you couldn't do
that at least I couldn't like I don't
make a whole idea of pointing it on the
individual citizens to vote I'm much
more into the idea of things at the
policy level that make it easier for
them to do so you know why not we compel
people to pay taxes uh yeah and I don't
like that either like it's always better
to do things on the policy level then on
the level of lifestyle politics or
trying to shame individual people or
like coerce them compulsory uh well but
it's not that's not life style politics
at all and it's definitely in a place
like Brazil it's not saying it should
make a everything that you should make a
Dilma were elected yeah you know it's
not it's not you're not making a choice
you know you're not forcing people to
make a choice in terms of let's say
you're compelling them to do something
that is like one of the obligations of
being a member being a citizen you need
to pay taxes you need to you need to get
a Social Security card you actually
don't really actually need to do that I
don't want to spend my time browbeating
people who don't vote it's not a problem
you don't have to do anything just
legislation it's simple it's you don't
see what its gonna do for them but it
agreed to disagree well you you could
and then just pay a tax penalty I would
be into it if you could get an exemption
if you showed you participated in at
least one direct action that year okay
fair enough all right here's a picture
of me at a protest you can't see it too
well there was about 20 of us and we
were banging
drums can I not vote now please listen
we can all sit around here and joke but
there are horrible stories about what is
happening to individuals in this country
to immigrants in this country no I'm not
talking about the New Yorker story of
the five year old girl from Honduras who
was coerced to the extent that you can
coerce a five-year-old from signing away
their rights to a judicial hearing like
I don't even know if you can call that
coercion it's like taking rights away
from a baby yeah exactly we will get to
that story it is a shocking story of the
of the the kidnapping in the kidnapping
that we're doing and maybe you know we
do it nicely we we get the kid to sign
her name on a piece of paper with having
a five-year-old myself the idea of this
is just repulsive that's not this
five-year-old girl from Honduras is not
the only other immigrant who is being
subjected to horrible things there's
another immigrant to this country who's
also been subjected to unimaginable
hardship and picking on and of course
I'm talking about the first lady Melania
Trump sitting down with ABC knows what
is it about social media because I
remember you talking about this during
the campaign what happened to you
personally or what did you see
personally that you thought you wanted
to tackle this issue I could say I'm the
most bully person on in the world you
think you're the most bullied person
what one of them if you really see what
people saying about me you're an adult
you say you're strong ok paparazzi
possible you could literally say
anything I just would like to add that
right but then he then the ABC
interviewer questions it out of and and
it's one of those questions where it's
almost like you don't need to be a
reporter with any experience in the
world to do that it's literally like he
couldn't stop himself from asking that
question almost seemed like softball
energy could you clarify like I am
did I misunderstand what you said did
you say that you were the most bullied
person in the world and then she backed
off it I'm up there as one of one of the
most half-10 I mean one of the most
bullied I mean super stunning now maybe
if he'd asked another question like do
you feel bullied from your husband maybe
some of this might come into a bully
summon you ignore other thing exactly
this issue I could say I'm the most
bully person on in the world you think
you're the most bullied person what one
of them if you really see what people
saying about me doing adult you say
you're strong have you thought about
what would this do to a child to my son
to other children
that's why I mean in other words in
other words what if you actually were
bullied like would that be hard for you
or and instead it turns out to be like a
nice soft ball question for her to
promote this is what I'm doing but folks
look she's going to talk about her be
best a program I think she came up with
that name or so be best
that's why I you know might be best
initiative is focusing on social media
and online behavior we need to educate
the children of social emotional
behavior so when they deposit I will say
this and I think this is this is this is
I have to credit her with this I have a
five-year-old son and literally I can
simply say that's mean don't be like
Donald Trump and he understands what
that means I mean to a certain extent
he's been very educated by this to the
extent where you know that you don't
want to be mean because you don't want
to be like Donald Trump so emotional
behavior
so when they grow up and they know how
to deal with with those issues that's
very important also with opioid abuse we
have a big crisis in United States
wait what every day I am struggling not
to take opioids because of majority
reports key who made fun of me every day
and I want to opiates but I am strong
woman also anybody who wants to feel
sorry for her she was right there in
lockstep about the birther stuff and
she's done a number of other take opioid
yes maybe because if you are not from an
opioid state you would be nicer supposed
to say opioid be best be better if I be
best I mean don't bully and don't take
opioid here are the two steps to being
best number one you don't bleep someone
on snapchat or Instagram and number two
you don't tell period and then you will
be part of best just say no oh forget it
bullied just forget about it I was
supposed to be a retired safely and me
so it's two years ago and never see this
fat orange man again do you think this
I'm talking about bullying do you think
there's a chance I will ever even come
back to America before we're out of the
White House could I is it possible I
could just keep going to different
places where else is there also Africa
what else
he makes whales aren't the car so it
blows the fumes in my face I walk around
I'm going to spend the next three months
in Vienna telling everyone to be best
best best but not like Beyonce best
I'm tired of cultural politics speaking
of people that you should have no
sympathy or respect for here is Jeff
Flake still on his conservative
Reformation project is nothing this has
nothing to do with the Republican Party
we have witnessed over the past couple
weeks nothing to do with the
conservative movement it is all there is
only one element there's only one thing
wrong with what's been going on with our
government and that is just Donald Trump
who incidentally as you recall was
dropped out of a metaphorical helicopter
and fell into the presidency without any
help from all of those Republicans
whatsoever one final question because
you were in New Hampshire are you
thinking about running for president um
you know every senator that thinks of
that some not very seriously I'm
probably one of those having said that I
do hope that somebody does run in the
primary against the president I think
the Republicans need to be reminded of
what conservatism really is and what it
means to be decent pause what vote what
vote has Jeff Flake taken that has not
been aligned with Trump's agenda that
expresses the true conservatism also
could he fit any more pictures of his
family in this shot behind him right I
mean give me a break
there is no conservativism there is that
what what is conservativism it is it is
like I mean Latin exists Latin exists
but nobody speaks it it's a dead
language conservativism is a is a is a
dead ideology it doesn't really exist in
the world
that's pretty sensible reaction it is it
is it is simply a label for a set of
policies that are at its root sort of
just fearful of anyone that is different
from themselves in some way well it is a
precise hierarchy right I hope Blake
runs for president though that may not
be very that's a hierarchy and dominance
displays what Donald Trump do some that
flake for 20/20 primary would be pretty
funny that maintains a hierarchy that
is fundamentally though you know I mean
the the hierarchy is is it's not even
it's not a generic hierarchy right like
it's not like they like hierarchy for
the sake of hierarchy
it is so that essentially white men like
Jeff Flake can be on top now they're
willing to make some trade-offs here and
there and but that that's basically it
and the outside of that there is no
other conservatism and and Jeff Flake
must surely must understand this now
because he's seen the entire
conservative so-called conservative
movement that is there organizing
principle about deficits are not
spending if that's the case there is not
a single conservative in the Republican
Party maybe there's a couple we don't
know if they're we don't know if they
had the ability to stop anything that
they would actually vote that way but
the vast majority of the Republican
Party doesn't care what Jeff blank
thinks is conservatism they are
motivated by it it's just I don't know
how anybody could argue otherwise well
he's got an incentive to pretend that
it's something else because somebody
just sent me a video of Jeff Flake
speaking in support of apartheid in 1987
oh yeah anyway he was a lobbyist anybody
in government anybody in Republican
politics supported or was on the wrong
side of the liver and Jeff Flake voted
with Trump 84% of the time he did not
vote with Trump on immigration bans and
apparently with Jeana Haspel at the CIA
here's the difference I was polite when
I said that Nelson Mandela should stay
in prison right ANSI should be banned
and that black South Africans should be
systemic ly murdered and repressed but I
never I said specifically to never use
the term what we did it right so
uh yeah according to now is there any
issue beyond I mean that is greater in
the imagination of the the ninety five
percent of Republicans who voted for
Donald
Trump then his immigration stuff
I mean honestly like you know I Got News
for Jeff Flake if he thinks there's
conservatism guess what he's not one
he's just a corporatist who's mad about
the immigration policies that they made
some doubt you know chip away at
low-cost labor he also named his most
recent book the conscience of a
conservative which is Barry Goldwater's
book right Barry Goldwater of course
moderation and protection of Liberty is
no virtue extremism in defense of
freedom is no vice so this is what that
party and remember what freedom meant
yeah I can have I can have a lunch
counter now sure right people freedom
and and and but in Goldwater was
actually a pioneer of the I'm absolutely
not racist and if he literally had the
perspective of some idiot that would
call in this show look are not
personally racist and it's bad for
business but if we tell the south to
stop empowering power military terrorist
organizations and systemically
oppressing black people that would be
antithetical to freedom yeah I agree
with the second part
right like extremism in defense of
freedom a okay just have a different
definition of freedom but this is this
is pretty impressive
Steve minuchin has decided that he will
not in any way cancel his trip to Saudi
Arabia for meetings and because look
what is one killing and chopping up of a
columnist between friends that's
basically can I ask you about a slightly
different issue and it's it's one that
is vexing a lot of executives at the
moment and they've got to make a
decision about whether they travel to
Saudi Arabia for the
I event currently as I understand that
you are scheduled to go but even as we
speak you hear leaders elsewhere pulling
out of the event are you still
determined that you will attend at this
point given that there is still I think
no clarity as to what has happened to
positive uh I think there's some clarity
I think we're pretty much in the clarity
realm of what happened I mean so you
know maybe this guy's giving him a
slight out here there's a you know we
don't know what happened
we suspect that he was murdered and
chopped up there's apparently audio and
video of it but maybe he's spontaneously
combusts it feels like he's consciously
keeping the CNBC viewers in the dark a
little bit a little bit but let's see
let's give Steve minuchin an assessment
so what has happened to mr. Kashani The
Washington Post journalist well first
let me just say we are concerned about
there's the status of mr. khashoggi and
although I haven't had direct
conversations with the Saudis I know
other people within the executive branch
have and those discussions are underway
I am planning on going at this point if
more information comes out and changes
we could look at that but I am planning
on going and what would your advice be
to two executives in the United States
and elsewhere who are asking themselves
the same question about whether they
should be attending well my comment is
we all want information so let's let's
wait and see what information comes out
in the next week are you concerned at
all that there may be any wider damage
to the relationship with that country as
far as the u.s. is concerned or any
economic implications well Saudi has
been a very good partner of ours in a
lot of areas and there are in fact one
of the reasons why I'm going over there
is last year we started the terrorist
financing targeting center with all the
Gulf countries and it's based in Saudi
we co-chair it with about its basement
it's how people
over at least once a year and work with
them on this so that that's another
major focus of my trip and they've been
a terrific partner in combating
terrorist financing with us
really really have day based about with
since when did that happen you've come
to the right place
yes my mother we're going to we're going
to combat terrorist financing we're
going to shut down our banks three days
a week bank holidays thank holidays that
my friend for you where I will behead
your wife we will cut the financing by a
10% for you but these terrorists who
chopped these people up I mean honest it
is barbarism total barbarism do you
think I mean I do bad minuchin couldn't
have the the frankness of trumpet just
say like there's too much money and Bob
we get too many friends we make like ARB
says okay but I also but you know it
reminds me of the there was something in
a disgusting way refreshing about Trump
being like well you think we're angels
and a little bit of sort of honesty
about the a morality of u.s. foreign
policy conversely though this is the
type of thing which really underscores
in international relations manners
actually mattering because it's like
this is the type of thing that yes if
they murdered and dismembered a
journalist under Obama they'd cancel
some meetings like and they also
wouldn't feel on top of everything else
we could murder and dismember a
journalist than an AI I absolutely
facilitated I mean even even if you want
to try me the guy calls the press the
enemy the people all day you know let's
take it literally that's all NBS is
doing I am taking good ideas seriously
alright let's talk about this story this
is super disturbing and it's indicative
of you know there are more and more
people who are digging into stories of
the family separations this is I mean
this suggests that the you know the
family separation still probably and
maybe in some respect well certainly
there are still again I shouldn't even
call family separations kidnapping and
there are more of these stories and on a
widespread scale it meets the definition
of genocide this is a story from The New
Yorker Sarah still Stillman wrote about
this five-year-old girl put the picture
up of her if you have it name is Helen
she fled Honduras with her grandmother
and several of the relatives gangs had
threatened her grandmother's teenage son
and the family no longer felt safe so
the grandmother Helens grandmother must
had a couple of kids one was older had a
teenage son I was younger had a
five-year-old I mean she had a teenage
son and Helen's mother Jennie had
migrated to Texas four years ago so the
grandmother was planning to seek legal
refuge there in Texas Christian was
taken at the border put into a cage with
toddlers its teenage son a plain clothes
official told her that she and Helen
would be separated now according to the
way they classify five-year-old girls
like this who come in with their
grandmother
they are unaccompanied minors because
they're not coming in with their mom or
their dad and even when they separated
the kid from the parents then they
become unaccompanied minors so the word
on accompany means nothing in this
context so later that day the the
grandmother and her teenage son were
reunited they were released on bail with
electronic bracelets pending courts
court dates maybe not bail just with the
electronically
bracelets they went to see Jenny the
mother Helens mother the five-year-olds
mother with a belief that Helen had be
released to the mother when they got
there
she wasn't officials from the office of
refugee resettlement said that they were
holding Helen at a shelter in Houston
and she had been taken to a Christian
Child and Family Services which had been
contracted to house unaccompanied minors
so under the Flores settlement which was
fashioned I believe this took place in
the 90s the Flores settlement which
basically was a function of a lawsuit
private civil lawsuit brought against
the government about holding children
Helen this is the five-year-old had a
right to a bond hearing before a judge
and a hearing like that she obviously
she she gets bond she gets sent since
she gets released to her family at the
time that Helen was apprehended she
checks the box on the line that read I
do request an immigration judge I don't
know why they left five-year-olds do
this when they've got a guardian with
them but if they perceive them as
unaccompanied minors that's what they do
by August an unknown official handed
Helen a five-year-old girl doesn't
matter where sex is five-year-old a
legal document that says a request for a
Flores bond hearing that is a bond
hearing under the auspices of the Flores
agreement which describes a set of legal
proceedings and rights that would have
been difficult for Helen to comprehend
because she was five it says to fully
understand Flores bond hearing you may
speak to an attorney before making a
request if you'd like to speak to an
attorney please inform staff at this
facility we'll put you in touch with an
attorney free of charge or you may speak
to your own attorney if you have one if
you requested a Flores bond hearing but
wish to withdraw your request you may
also use this form to resort withdraw
your request once as a box it says I
request the Flores bond hearing at this
time
she obviously checked off the first box
when she was with her grandmother we
said check out this box the second box
says I would draw my previous request
for Flora's blonde bond hearing I
understand that I may request the Flores
bond hearing at a later time and I may
do so by filing a new request former by
making an oral request in the
immigration court child's name helen
child signature Helen now Saul is five
he can sign his name he's been able to
write his name for about I don't know
maybe since he was like late late fours
if I was to ask Saul do you know what it
means that you want to request a Flores
bond hearing Saul incidentally is an
English speaker that's the first
language he speaks uh he would just look
at me he's like what flowers I mean like
what the ears
I don't maybe I'll do it with him on
Helens form which if it was filled out
with assistance from officials there's a
checkbox next to that line I would draw
my previous request for a Flores blonde
hearing and then of course she signs her
name in the cute little way that defies
were her penmanship is actually pretty
good for a five-year-old she keeps it
all in one straight line that's pretty
good
her n is a capital n the rest of the
letters seem to be a lowercase except
for the H she was separated from her
family for what appears to be like two
or three months and of course it changed
her personality
she was hiding under tables and whatnot
fearful
even when she finally met her mom and
saw her grandmother again this is our
tax dollars at work and some kids don't
get reunited with them there are still I
think about a hundred kids who they have
yet to might be able to locate I read
one horrifying story that actually comes
from the Obama years of a girl who was
taken away from her mom on the grounds
that she was neglectful to bring her
into the country illegally and adopted
out and she never got her back
yeah there's I think there's many
stories like this under my understanding
is under the Obama administration to the
extent that they would separate any
children from parents it was a function
of there had to be an underlying reason
there had to be some charge that either
they were involved in you know a drug
running or there had been reasons to
believe that there was abuse or whatnot
I don't know that that my understanding
is that charge was not if that is the
case the policy of just simply
separating them a day one without any
underlying causation for that there
wasn't in this case I can dig it up for
you yeah
the Senate but in this instance this was
a mass policy that did this to thousands
of children and above and beyond
the policy of we're gonna separate you
because you're your dad was also you
know running drugs or was involved in
some other where there's some you know
reason for to believe there was abuse
now the Obama administration did run
afoul of the Flores agreement in that
they were detaining families for an
extended period of time and you can't do
that if there's children you can't you
can't detain them all simultaneously
even you know for an extended period of
time then ultimately you need to release
them on bail
but as it policy this is what has been
taking place under the Trump
administration let's go to the phones
come from eight six five area code who's
this where you come from a family this
is Kenneth Kenneth where you come from
Kenneth Knoxville uncle Tennessee
Knoxville Tennessee what's on your mind
well quite a bit and I don't want to
unpack all of it so I don't get calling
in Austin cuz my job but I'm having such
problems with conservatives because it's
pretty obvious that you got real and see
it target is just this association with
the facts it's almost like they always
seem to subscribe to like a cult of
thinking a cult of personality and well
anyway so whenever I point out any issue
to them like they'll point out the
shooting the democratically they call
the Democrats terrorists because of the
attack at the baseball game and you know
they point to these these things that
seem to be repeated through our new
local radio conservative talk radio is
like stark in Tennessee and it just
seems to recirculate those same ideas
but whenever you point to things like
Ann Coulter calling for civil wars
Donald Trump isn't elected and things
like that they will they dismiss it so
it almost gets to be almost like a a Jim
Jones cult of personality thing where
they only listen to this one voice and
it's it's really it's really bizarre but
the other things I want to point to real
quick let you know whenever I watched
YouTube and your show comes on and I
wanna start subscribing to you guys
because I really like I mean I really
enjoy your TV and lulav John Stewart
which like Michael he's got me I can't
watch the news without somebody like
Michael always had dinner what the
no me and I enjoy that now so I got a I
got to add that in there is somebody
good what the is this so but at any
rate anyway
but the point I wanted to make was see
our TV is always advertising right
before your programs you know and so I
can always well yeah you know that's a
good point
and we have decided that we're actually
going to deal with that I mean we're
gonna roll something out in the very
near future to to address that because
frankly the we're done seating that
playing field too too conservative you
know we had the same thing with whatever
Prager University for a while and I'm
done with that I'm not you know too many
of them they refuse to show up for
debates they chicken out so we're gonna
we will roll out very shortly a response
to that but go ahead continue well
didn't you
debate Charlie Kurt I'm going to do that
at politican a week from Sunday I'm
gonna be a great Sunday night I assume
well that'll be a video welcome to the
forum Charlie exactly but you know there
were he was not he was not the first
planned person let's put it that way and
so you know and there's others obviously
out there and we're gonna address that
but I appreciate the call oh just one
more thing I really appreciate your show
more over than others now because you
know I learned something new every time
I hear your perspective on policy and I
think that's very very important I get
the same from Tony Johnston that's where
there's like some more news yeah yeah he
really gives but what's useful for all
that is you know there's opinion but
then you need facts
I mean honestly and I know they I I get
so frustrated with them because when you
point to things oh I did have one
question for Michael and before I get to
that it was just basically isn't I when
I was talking to them it seems like
anytime I have a criticism of cut
capitalism they always seem to push back
with these weird weird concepts like
well we're free market economics but
then I point to the fact well if that
were true then people could go in Texas
could go to Mexico and buy cheaper drugs
or they could go from New York to Canada
for treat cheaper drugs so we really
don't have the option for our markets
for cheaper we're in a closed market and
then it seems as if the corporation's
can just go wherever Labor's cheap like
Vietnam or somewhere like that so yeah
whenever I read um a movie at Point
Capital not people yeah exactly and and
they it's just it they again they borrow
from tired points of view like their own
Milton Friedman but I point to mark
Blythe and the Michael Hudson you know
for a great deal of that and it's really
really good to have again an argument to
build off us so thanks a lot you guys I
will join patreon I just got a few you
know financial things take care of I'll
be glad to I really appreciate what
you're doing ok so let me tell you this
if you if you'd like a membership and
you have financial issues send us an
email we we will turn no one away
appreciate the call well thank you
thanks have a good come from an eight
one four area code who's this where he
come from hi this is James and I'm
calling from Erie Pennsylvania hello
James what's on your mind I'm calling
about an earlier guest and I thought
they made some statements that were
present prejudicial and offensive and it
was about omnivores lacking in
compassion okay and I just want to say
there is no kill feed diet that
vegetarians paying farmers to kill worms
and insects and rodents for them it's
you know I moved out to the country and
you know I've been a vegetarian before
but I think because people are so
extrange from where their foods grow
they don't realize that when gets clear
animals get killed at the whole process
of killing animals that allow people to
eat their vegetables so the idea of this
they're more compassionate than
omnivores is not going to make sense
well I'm gonna go get a cheeseburger
goodbye have a nice Lincoln everybody
I'm gonna have a double basic she's
right as an omnivore myself I think it's
it's it's a hard it's a hard thing to
argue that killing less animals factory
farming less animals is not slightly
more compassionate than the idea of yes
you gotta kill insects and occasionally
if you got a groundhog uh furring if
you've got a groundhog that is coming in
and eating a lot of your foods I guess
maybe they shoot the groundhog or
something like that I mean I see what
you're saying you told me you killed
groundhogs for sports let's take his
utilitarian argument at face value okay
say the lives of insects and groundhogs
yada yada are a thing he actually cares
about the amount
oh he's not saying that he cares about
that story that we care about the amount
of veggies that it takes to create any
amount of meat is like ten times what it
would be if you just ate the veggies so
even if you care about that utilitarian
argument it's still more compassionate
to be a vegetarian but he's he's saying
that it's impossible to be and well let
me ask you this I mean James do you
think it's even possible to be
compassionate about any like in other
words do you think let me put it this
way do you think it's hypocritical for
me to say like hey man I feel bad for
that person who was murdered by me
shooting a gun at them when I don't
really but it doesn't bother me because
I pay taxes and we kill people abroad
like I mean there's a difference right I
mean isn't there like I could say like
hey
I think it's wrong for you to shoot that
person but I don't necessarily I'm not
as upset about paying taxes for weapons
that kill people right I don't know but
you're saying like what James if I lost
let me restate it cuz I was unclear if
you're saying that you that it's
hypocritical to have compassion for
let's say pigs that may be slaughtered
in factory farms and that you shouldn't
eat those because of that if you say
that it's it's hypocritical because when
you eat your bok choy let's say in fact
a farmer ends up killing a bunch of
insects and maybe some rodents as well
if you don't see a distinction between
those do you see a distinction between
you know you murdering somebody versus
you paying taxes that go to a war
machine that end up killing people what
I'm saying is it's possible for I'm
Devore's to be just as compassionate as
vegetarians and that your diet has
nothing to do with it well I mean not in
terms of you know not in terms of of
like the pigs I'm not a good man but
worm suffering it doesn't mean the same
thing as cows I also also if you are
really just going purely on compassion
by the logic of your argument I hate to
be a by your logic person by your logic
you'd be at Jane who wear face masks so
as to not even swallow insects by
accident and some of them literally
follow they only eat fruit and nuts
because they fall from trees they don't
they're not picked some studies show
that even plants apparently I have no
idea you measured us have some sense of
a reaction when they know they're gonna
get picked so if you're following he's
not but do I get that but but he's not
making a claim about himself I am he
saying though that's ridiculous but
here's a to have
less compassion I can make it even
simpler than them I gotta make it simple
Morsi of less compassion if you have
compassion for ten people versus someone
who has compassion for six people that
person who has compassion for ten people
has more compassion and is that not
right James James just answer the
question is what I said correct no I
don't think so I don't like a person who
to have some passion for 99 people and
someone else has compassion for a
hundred people that the 99 person is
less compassionate than a hundred person
well you know word more or less
compassion means nothing in which case
all right then you're like words have no
meaning and there is no compassion thing
oh it's not what is it based on what's
it based on some compassion for us well
it's not been troubling me we can get
this over with I'm just curious how do
can you measure compassion I can't all
right but James if we can't and as
you're compassionate and what do you
learn just you could have just called in
and saying
compassion is impossible to measure
therefore it's impossible for someone to
have more compassion than less and if
it's impossible to measure okay fine
appreciate the call Wow I was about to
sit here and be like right interrupt you
you're gonna go for it a 30 five minutes
I mean you know what maybe because it
involved animals not economics but if
that was a libertarian caller we would
be here till 4:30 that is absolutely
true
but if you cannot measure compassion
then yes it is a mistake to say one
person's more compassion another but if
you can and look
I will readily admit I do not have
enough compassion to stop eating meat
well it's just so easy to understand a
scale of suffering like and dislocations
of killing a cow versus a mosquito in
terms of they're sentient experiment
come on man don't be a idiot and
everything so purse suffering is not the
only metric either climate is probably
the more I'm gonna right I'm gonna cut
might now he was taking issue with it
with that that was some ass you said
that he had more compassion now for
four-legged animals because he has one
that's all that's probably beyond that
as pedantry but whatever I've heard
every single one of these arguments from
defensive disingenuous carnivores okay
I'm ready
don't come at me you're not gonna get
anything that I haven't heard before I
am a completely genuine omnivore and and
even I I realize like that it just means
that I have on some level fundamentally
a lack of compassion for these animals
if I had more compassion sorry mr. pig
sorry mr. cow I'm trying to cut back for
one at once a day that's a satellite up
pigs are smart as folks yes we have 15
people on the line I never sorry I don't
I need to show a certain lack of
compassion for you as callers and we
didn't even get to the Kanye stuff I
feel like everybody has seen it it's
alright I don't know done Vic burger got
a text from his dad saying maybe leave
the kanye stuff because he's clearly
mentally ill and that's sort of mentally
ill it's not a secret this is my only
comment about the about the Kanye I
think I mean I've watched it it's crazy
to watch the thing it's also pretty
crazy it's more of a reflection on Trump
who's exploiting this guy and sitting
there nodding his head like yeah I get
we were saying and this not but it is
not I
I do not feel equipped to make an
assessment a clinical assessment we make
colloquial assessments of people all the
time they're crazy they're lunatics this
and that but in terms of a clinical
assessment I don't have the ability do
this but I do know that he has said that
he has been diagnosed presumably by a
professional who had the ability to
prescribe medication because he's also
on record as saying he stopped taking
his medication so he is at the very
least someone who has been diagnosed
with mental emotional issues enough so
that a doctor has prescribed medication
for him and he made a conscious decision
to go off those those pills a public
decision apparently I don't know him
personally so it must almost
definitionally possibly know Sarah and I
don't but and the president is trying to
I don't know build some type of
political movement on it it's
embarrassing it's embarrassing me to
this it's embarrassing for any
conservative who is trying to make an
argument broadly that people are
following their that are moving to their
side because of what Kanye has said it
is particularly embarrassing to say that
african-americans are finally seeing the
light because this guy who publicly
announced that he's off his medication
has decided to take a meeting with the
president all right
that if you if that is your argument
about how people are coming to subscribe
to your ideology that's a super good
take and I will say this coming Tuesday
on TPMS where you're going to play
absolutely every single card clip
available and we are gonna have a very
I'm not saying I'm very tomorrow but
Batson
that was sending me clips I said Matt
you're a smart cookie oh my god it could
be both right because there are plenty
of people who are mentally ill who don't
spout horrible political opinions right
so that's partly on him and it's partly
on the fact that yes he is have someone
who has mental illness and come into
your office or you know Abbey and you're
I'm not convinced everybody in that room
doesn't have some type of mental issue
combination well I'm trying to say Tony
no no because the only one thing if you
were saying perfectly sensible things no
one would be caring he actually didn't
really said some pretty cool stuff
either I mean part of it is the mental
illness and part of it is him being an
 it can be both but that's what
makes the mental illness relevant
whatever go to JJ yes Kanye the left
really needs does to fight hard because
the Dems take power in 2020 and don't
manage to overcome a lot of the
Republican hate agenda a further extreme
right come back worse indeed a square
finally Digby gets a theme song mattheum
film guy I love snowpiercer and I love
tildes acting so I'll watch Murphy
should be house leader if Dems get the
Senate he was on Hayes and Chris Murphy
and when asked basically if any doubt
the khashoggi was killed he looked
straight in the camera and said no he's
been one of the senators with the
greatest clarity of purpose Merkley is
floating that he may run for president
incidentally I'm not opposed to that but
they got to get out the way Tom Bernie
yesterday when I called into the show
everyone comments called me a cup and a
troll because I mentioned being a member
of Young Democrats at my college
fYI some friends and I are currently in
the process of establishing a Dem social
is why would she left Prince Vega de I
am the Prince of all Saiyans again left
his best keen observer could totally see
Michael hang out Barnes and Noble as per
usual getting triggered by the coming
insurrection but like in a smart way so
problematic Rob Cole I thought about all
that build-up Matthew film guy was going
to recommend babe have a great weekend
still from still apartheid free Barkley
and the final I am of the day
of the week Paul Ryan's double federal
taxes figures probably forced on the
stipulation that he gets his ein rain
and spend wet dream and reduces taxes to
zero for the rich and corporations
double that figure is only enough to pay
for anything Ryan's government health
care and endless war see you on Monday
in that sig goes back to get
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
brakes you love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
stay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
