all right let's talk about labor
secretary Alex Acosta who know that you
could not be a the guy who gave a
sweetheart deal to a pedophile and not
make it in the Trump administration now
of course all the reports are that
conservatives have been unhappy with him
because he hasn't been aggressive enough
in attacking labor and so they were
willing to jettison him here is Donald
Trump talking about Alex Acosta panic
which I which I so admire maybe it was a
little tougher for him and maybe not but
he's an unbelievable job as the
Secretary of Labor that's what I know
about him I know one thing he did a
great job and until this came up
there was never an ounce of money
let me let me just add you know I hear a
lot about how individuals cut jobs and
whatnot before our interview we had
never met we had never talked the
president selected me as it should be
done it wasn't that we knew each other
it's not that we had a long-standing
relationship and I think that's a
testament to his selection process the
best selection process I had the best
selection process what is what a
powerful communicator quite a lot of
protesting only he was perfectly great
except for letting the billionaire child
sex trafficker off aside from that
totally clean but a baby in another
sense that was also good oh so maybe
that also held I love that he was
Hispanic which might have made things
tougher for him or maybe that's all eyes
but either way good job a good job being
Hispanic ace huh did you see I there was
a really weird quote in a Daily Beast
article that came out though yesterday
where supposedly and it kind of
surprised me that he was actually asked
about this in his um Wow now I'm really
starting to get the chair thing because
I'm literally finding these guys
distracting from here on screen but in
any rate he was asked supposedly during
the Trump transition they asked him oh
we have the quote why did he cut this he
was actually asked why cut Epstein a
sweetheart deal and Acosta told the
Trump people that quote I was told to
back off that Epstein was above his prey
grade and I was told that quote Epstein
belonged to intelligence and to leave it
alone and you know I don't usually go in
that direction but I would like to know
what that meant or who told him or who
told him that I mean maybe he made it up
at a whole cloth but on the other hand
it seems to me that clearly this is a
guy who
this the whole epstein thing even
implicates people and institutions that
there's zero evidence that they were
involved in the worst of it but it's
worth asking you know why were so many
prominent scientists flying on this
plane why were you know institutions
like Harvard still taking money from him
even after he was convicted I without a
doubt you know it would be a great a we
had some type of mechanism where we had
like I don't know like representatives
of us that had resources and mechanism
in and abilities to investigate things
and mate you know so the public would
know about them that dealt with our
government that would be great you know
it you know what's funny is you were
talking about Richie Neil earlier and I
don't know that much about him but I he
was not my congressman growing up
because there was a guy named John
Oliver who was the congressman and then
they they cut a new district so now he
actually does cover where my mother
lives and but you knew about him and I
think like in some ways Richie Neil he's
always been such a pure machine
politician I he's as disinterested in
what Donald Trump is doing as in like
the Mafia's role in Springfield as a
city like he just been doing a job where
he liked delivers for a narrow set of
interests and looks the other way on
everything for decades and I guess Trump
is no different yeah it's I don't know
it's pretty it's pretty nuts and I we we
clearly need more investigation into
this and I don't know if we're gonna get
it I mean I don't know what the mandate
is of the Southern District of New York
how wide-ranging this will be and I have
no sense of what the timetable is but
this is what you would anticipate from
Congress if we didn't have you know
Speaker of the House and who seem to be
mad that people are demanding
Congress do some oversight it's very
nice you all investigations don't ever
tweet about it
