[Music]
so let's just do the series of let's
here's Donald Trump last Thursday
calling for an investigation
investigation into the Biden's in
Ukraine and China we know we said at the
time why he was doing this I still think
it stands that he was doing this call
specifically to normalize essentially
what was criminal activity now I've seen
some takes on Twitter maybe we'll get to
this when we get to the Ron Johnson
thing here so let's let's hear this call
because we have a lot the real issue
here now is the Republican Party this
party full I don't want to call them
cowards because I think that gives them
too much credit I honestly do they're
corrupt AF as the kids would say not as
sort of the kids but and the adults
tremendous power
well I would think that if they were
honest about it that sort of made your
investigation into the biking it's a
very simple answer they should
investigate devices because how does a
company that's newly formed and all
these companies if you look at and by
the way likewise China should start an
investigation into the body because what
happened to China is just about as bad
as what happened with with Ukraine so I
would say that President Solinsky if it
were me I would recommend that they
start an investigation into the visor
okay
now isn't that funny isn't that
hilarious joke why do I say that's a
hilarious joke because that's what marco
rubio has told me it was a joke dude
take a joke here is brave little marco
remember how tough he was when he was
talking about his penis size with the
president do you remember that do people
remember that they got on an argument on
a debate stage about their penis size
that's not a metaphor folks i think i
blocked that out here he is now was a
highlight of the campaign i don't know
that's a real request for him just
needling the press knowing that you guys
were going to get outraged by it he's
gotten he's pretty good at getting
everybody fired up and he's been doing
that for a while and the media responded
right on right on right on task
[Music]
I don't think it's a real required two
gig entity I think he did it to give you
guys I think he did it to provoke you to
ask me and others and get outraged by it
I said I mean he plays it like a violin
and every falls right into that's not a
real request yeah you shouldn't take him
seriously I don't take the president
seriously when he says stuff he was just
digging with like we
we in any way get upset about what the
president says I mean this is the most
disingenuous and like I say cowardly is
to it's too kind of a word for this
this is corrupt this is this is
basically I'll take the tax cuts you
take that thing I'm gonna cover for
Donald Trump me and my less than
substantial endowment apparently says
Marco Rubio before people try and cut
that and the tribute it to me there it
is Marco Rubio little Marco little Marco
so cute so cute sweating under the
lights media plated like because they
wanted the press to come and ask Marco
about it meanwhile should we replay Jim
Jordan on or should we start with
Stephanopoulos
