oh let's play the Ilhan Omar Bernie
Sanders endorsement video and then we
will allow John King to critique it here
it is I am so proud to endorse senator
Bernie Sanders for president senator
Bernie Sanders is the only candidate
that has build a movement and continues
to build a movement that transcends
gender ethnicity religion and we know
that in order to take on Trump we're
going to need a unifier someone who
understands what the fight looks like
and someone who is ready to defeat him
I'm one of the people that was inspired
by the movement that the senator has
built there was an America that I
dreamed about there is an America that
most people
believe in it is an ideal it's not
reality yet and he started the work of
organizing for that America and that has
inspired me to get involved and run
myself to help others also organized for
that America one of the amazing things I
think about the senator is that he
understands we have to find solutions to
our greatest problems we don't wait for
what the poll numbers are on proposing a
particular solution the senator is the
only candidate that is proposing a
complete cancellation of student debt
the senator is the only candidate that
is proposing to provide universal food
meals the senator is the only candidate
that wants to make sure that we end our
endless wars and will fight for human
rights and hold everyone accountable
regardless of whether there are an ally
or foe the senator is someone who
understands that our movement isn't just
for you it's for everyone
the senator is the only candidate that
isn't about leading a particular way but
being true to yourself and fighting for
what you believe regardless of what the
obstacles are the
is not just the fight for our lives this
is the fight for our democracy this is a
fight for a better future one that we
can all be proud of she mentioned it in
that ad but I had mentioned at the top
of the show that she has introduced
legislation to provide free school
lunches universally in the country
Bernie Sanders has introduced that same
bill in the Senate so that's something
that they're they're working together on
but folks I know what you're thinking oh
that's great but there's some people who
see that it could be a liability for
Bernie Sanders because well let's let
John King from CNN tell you why the
source is that special guest is going to
be congresswoman Alexandria Castillo
Cortes
she's the fresh woman phenom from from
that part of the country that part of
New York she's going to be endorsing
Bernie Sanders and I'm also told sources
say that
Ilhan Omar and congresswoman Rashida to
leave congresswoman Omar congresswoman
Talib from Minnesota and Michigan
respectively also going to be endorsing
Bernie Sanders so even if he's not a
headline out of this evening he has some
headlines coming it's an extension of
what we see tonight a debate about
Donnelly who is going to lead the party
but where is the party going to go which
part of the party is going to lead the
party into the 2020 election they are
more of the younger fresher face more
aggressive more liberal less
compromising let's talk about working
with Republicans and one of the
questions for Bernie Sanders has been in
a very different race this time can he
find a lane to victory there is no
doubting his fundraising there is no
doubting the depth of his support across
the country but is it in the teens can
you get into 20s how do you win that
will certainly help him but it will also
I think senator Klobuchar is coming in
to join us now we have some of the other
candidates say wait a minute
you know is this too far left is this
too uncompromising is it too urban is it
to Internet does the Democratic Party
need to find a broader audience it is
going to stoke the very debate we saw
play out on the State
now I can't tell if he's talking about
the endorsement and or if he was just
talking about somehow Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren's policies are to urban
now he comes from Vermont which is you
know a pretty rural State
I mean Burlington is a fairly small city
as far as this goes
Burlington is where KR us what if he's
were talking about if he's still talking
about if he's talking about the
endorsement from AOC yes she's she
represents an urban district the Ilhan
O'Mara's
district particularly is in Detroit but
how could a Democratic candidate win
without there being nervous like what
Democratic candidate has won in in
modern times without winning urban
centers in fact that's all that they
earned I mean have you seen that gif is
that what you're digging for the Gipp I
mean it's a weird twist of phrase but
maybe he wasn't talking about the
endorsement maybe he was talking about
something else let's go to John King on
Twitter to get him to describe it please
don't take a snippet and twist my words
I said they are leading new voices in
the party but also part of the debate we
saw on stage tonight some candidates
argue parts of the party are too liberal
too urban
well what does that mean who was
literally never heard anybody say that
phrase I've heard you know this is so
disingenuous and I'm gonna actually
defend Pete and it's not just says it
was a policy point nothing to do with
color I don't know what the policy point
is what is what to urban about the
policies of the Democratic Party yeah I
mean absolutely and people like Amy
Klobuchar and mayor Pete are talking
about
in fact you need to appeal to the urban
areas of the Midwest as an example
nobody is saying including ones that I
really hate
you know the future strategy Democratic
participation I mean F New York City
Mayor Pete the voice narration is a city
exactly dams to City drop dead I mean
but this is just incredible because it's
like they always reveal themselves in
every conversation about Bernie and I
have no doubt though that John King
being who he was was woman the person
who several years ago was saying like
Bernie just can't move out of the white
rural base that's better I'm in the
Democratic Party so whatever it is
they're always gonna lie and minimize
about whatever it is that benefits
Sanders looking back watching people be
surprised that people would endorse
somebody who shares their politics
it shows how just childish and stupid so
many people are in politics I think to a
certain extent to you know this is this
is the old not getting the Young's right
like where this this sense of just sort
of like this is they what he thinks is
urban energy whatever that means is just
like young people yoyoyo
this is Ilan Omar John King step aside
like the rural urban divide is something
that you know you can win this
throughout history and it's always
there's it's always either racialized or
like worried about the cosmopolitan Jews
yeah exactly it's always racial thing if
Bernie's policies were extensively
focused on only urban centers but he's
also got like a huge plan to help rural
hospitals out he's got all kinds of
stuff got a big AG in the thing it is
I'm sorry there is that he is describing
a debate in the Democratic Party which
has not been there I mean it just has
not been there between no wait and and I
don't care if you I mean if you look at
Michigan Wisconsin and Pennsylvania the
bottom line is if mill
he has a higher turnout if Detroit has a
higher turnout if Philadelphia has a
higher turnout it's a different election
I mean but aside from that like where
he's sort of superimposing that urban
thing I will say this back when I used
to do voiceovers way back in the early
90s you would you would get like a
voiceover easily a little more urban
we're going with more urban direction
and that was their euphemism for saying
black yo yo yo yo Sam C be here for
t-mobile do you want to have a super
fresh cat yo yo what's up yo yo I'm sure
you got that Direction a lot
