we talked yesterday about the protests
that are taking place in Lebanon which
are fundamentally taking on a sickness
with neoliberalism and austerity and
it's significant because there cross
sectarian and this is journalist Kareem
Jia Bey shet che AB on Democracy Now
elaborating on the protests since
Thursday night protests have swept
Beirut following a cabinet decision to
add further regressive taxes to help
balance the Lebanese budget which is
going through a massive which has a
massive deficit news outlets used a
whatsapp tax as sort of the straw that
broke the camel's back what happened
that night started with the protests
that went around Beirut but following an
incident where the bodyguards at
Education Minister fired warning shots
and dispersing the crowds we suddenly
heard and saw protests across the
country erupted like never before
across major cities and towns and people
blocking major highways across the
country
and Kareem she should have these
protests have occurred not only in
Beirut but in other areas of the country
where Hezbollah is the is the main
political and governmental force I'm
wondering are the protests now spreading
throughout the country absolutely so
following incidents of last Thursday
night we have seen protests across the
country including in areas which are
considered key political areas for
parties like Hezbollah and their allies
Amal such as Seward vintage BAE Liberty
and others this is rather unprecedented
considering that many of them have been
critical of both parties especially amel
and there's been a bit of nuance on
Hezbollah which you have never seen
before in those areas in particular we
have seen some cases of people attacking
the signs and offices of MPs belonging
to both parties so this is something
that's very unique for Lebanon because
despite Lebanon having a relatively
vibrant civil society in the region
especially in Beirut it remains centric
to the capital but here
we're seeing protests across the country
calling for at least the vast majority
of people calling for the downfall of
the government yeah and I think that
that's actually an interesting thing
even with regards to Hezbollah Hezbollah
that has that very Sunni kind of justice
did she adjust this not Sunni Shia
justice discourse has actually been
extremely integrated with its own forms
of global capital and its own way its
own sort of modes of governance and
they've sort of changed and reflected
those broader dynamics in Lebanon so
this movement is it's powerful it's
really exciting we'll see what it yields
and it does parallel Sudan and Iraq
