[Music]
dan Crenshaw he's he's a guy she's a guy
and he doesn't he doesn't let emotion
cloud his thing like let's say like a OC
there doesn't let emotion influence the
way he moderates a Facebook group that's
right and here is Dan Crenshaw he's on
with Martha McCallum he's he's trying to
explain like she's so out of control
that aoc making up all sorts of lies
poor poor timing on this one Dan
Crenshaw plays their own officers here
now Republican congressman Dan Crenshaw
of Texas congressman great to have you
with us today you know first of all your
reaction to that back and forth between
the congresswoman and these officers
it's sad to see she's getting bolder
with her lies on this and and this is
what's actually happening this is what
the American people need to understand
people like aoc are operating off of a
false premise and it's deliberately
designed to miss inform the American
people for her own political ends right
remember first there was no crisis at
all okay then it was a manufactured
crisis then it was a crisis completely
the created by Trump then there were
concentration camps an on second now
everything he's just outlined I hope I
don't have to point out it's exactly the
trajectory of what happened there was no
crisis then there was a manufactured
crisis the manufacturing of the crisis
and then at the end of the manufacturing
process there was in fact crisis that
was created by Trump and then what was
the last step he had oh and that cut
that crisis was that we were putting
people in concentration camps and and
treating them with with abject disdain
this then it was a crisis completely the
created by Trump then there were
concentration camps then people are
Nazis now she's saying that Border
Patrol agents harassed her and forced
migrants to drink out of toilets this is
insanity then this is not true there's
no one else corroborating this kind of
these kind of reports and yet she's
using it to try and make her case that
we shouldn't have any enforcement and
that we should have open borders this is
really dishonest behavior from a member
of Congress and I honestly can't believe
I will agree with Dan Crenshaw that it's
very dishonest behavior from a member of
Congress but I would suggest that it was
him who's being dishonest poor timing on
this because just literally hours after
Dan Crenshaw is on the Department of
Homeland Security's inspector general
said that they were living in squalor in
these camps squalor it comes out that
just a day before that there was a face
group Facebook group of 9,500 people who
referred to themselves as all being part
of a big family who included documented
proof former and current members of the
Customs and Border Patrol who were in
fact passing around memes showing
essentially that AOC was being more or
less raped by Donald Trump in some
fashion and saying horrible things about
what they wanted to do to her as well as
showing total disregard for the humanity
of the people that they were supposed to
be watching so Dan Crenshaw is really a
struck out here in a kudos to martha
maccallum for basically showing
absolutely no indication that she was
aware of any of these things when she
did not question anything that he was
saying we should also I'm just gonna
replay this little part here
created by Trump then there were
concentration camps then people are
Nazis who did AOC called Nazis no one so
a CJ is crenshaw just given us a little
bit of a sneak peak for the yeah he's
been right so far right this is
disturbing is he jumping the gun because
so far he's actually given a really
accurate timeline as you pointed out of
what's happening I don't know maybe were
maybe refer back to Dan Crenshaw as
Facebook groups
crisis then it was a crisis completely
the created by Trump then there were
concentration camps then people are
Nazis yeah that's the way it works
that's the way it works
