[Music]
let's start yeah let's start with
Shapiro and then we'll go back to the to
the the debates because this is pretty
great now since you've left Matt we we
developed a Dropbox for encrypted
information for people to leak it to us
we don't talk about it law a lot because
of course we don't want the NSA to be
aware of this I've been ignoring Laura
Poitras emails exam
and there's an intricate thing that
involves you got to contact us on signal
then we sent you a proton email address
and then we send you a fob which you
insert into your computer and and then
what happens is we end up finding these
youtubes of bench bureau back on with
connie Martinson on tox books this is
from when 2011 2011 i was here then and
you were here then i don't know how we
didn't find this at that time but Benjy
cuz I was here then Brendan Shapiro now
the job is handled with a certain degree
of confidence where are we picking this
up from the very beginning of all of its
the beautiful yeah we'll take this right
from this topic I got there was a little
clip of this bench Pierrot
on talking about his book about how
Hollywood is chock full of liberals and
really what I the most interesting thing
I found about this was that Ben Shapiro
like everybody else who came from
Breitbart was just mad that they did not
have talent enough to break into
Hollywood and I should shout out some
more news Cody Johnston who initially
included part of this in his recent Ben
Shapiro video no he wanted to just write
a lethal weapon vehicle exactly
by the way Connie ends up being very
cool she owns him before the BBC guy did
yes the true Hollywood story of how the
leftover took your TV primetime prop
again welcome to Connie Martinson talks
books she's cool you watch a TV show and
you start laughing but afterwards do you
think about what maybe was said or what
you've been really recommended to
believe
my guest today Ben Shapiro has written
primetime propaganda the true Hollywood
story of how the left has made our
country took over your TV and it's
published by Harper I love how she
welcome welcome Ben thanks I guess what
has to think about things who have
laughed at but you seem to pinpoint the
authors of those shows as being liberal
Jews uh well not all of them I mean
Susan Harris is not Jewish they're
plenty scary marshal nor is Gary
Marshall I don't I certainly don't say
that all of them are Jewish Hollywood
but that's because there are a lot of
Jews at the top of any industry Jews
happen to be very hard-working
I don't like where this is going Wow
yeah if you actually sent us I protocols
of the Elders of Zion actually had a lot
of luck tonight
yes about Jewish work out that Jews
break up very bad guy Jews happen to be
very hard-working it isn't just that
they have a point of view that can be
considered comic and humorous oh that's
true I mean there's a unique brand of
Jewish humor and that's been true since
the beginning I mean go back to your
show of shows everybody in that writers
room is in New York Jew and that's and
that's good I mean this is good stuff
right that's that that would be
ridiculous the point and by the way
where are the points I make in the book
is that the book is that the people who
write TV are incredibly talented that
they have political agenda but they're
very talented
well let me say I've yet to know of too
many conservatives which is where you
put yourself
funny a humor that is transferable to I
mean I totally disagree with that I
think there there can be conservatives
who are funny liberals may not find them
funny all right
I mean okay Ann Coulter for
conservatives is funny okay for liberals
she's not funny Bill Maher for liberals
hilarious for conservatives not funny
well that depends cuz your turn using
politics as the form of their humor but
Bill Cosby is relatively conservative
today yeah and then Oh even back then it
did that's that's you know the idea that
conservatism is inherently unfunny is
not true it's the conservatives have
abandoned the playing field of humor and
narrative I'll agree with you there I
think that they've totally run away yeah
so many I you gotta pull that
conservatives have abandoned the playing
field of comedy and humor like there's
some young comedians you read it like
they're like they they were obsessed
with the classics with Pryor with Carlin
with staying up all night watching
vintage Senate live but then they were
like I'm not gonna go into it though
because I'm gonna cede the battlefield
comedy the culture well I gotta say this
that's totally the upshot of a passion
in fact back when I was starting out as
a stand-up you'd hear a lot of guys and
and women who would come in and you'd be
late night at you know catch a rising
star in the basement of someplace in
Cambridge and people would say like I
feel like maybe I should did you ever
say it to yourself Sam really I don't
even want to do this but this is a vital
part of the battlefield I would say
things to myself like I feel like I want
to get a job or I can get a consistent
income and then I was like but I can't I
can't take the tent down yeah the
encampment I've created on this band
going AWOL from the Battle of humor who
will do gen-x Andy Kaufman jokes that
promote the leftist agenda exactly was
probably what I was
is not true it's the Conservatives have
abandoned the playing field of humor and
narrative I'll agree with you there
I think that they've totally run away
from battle but that doesn't mean that
there's not the capacity within
conservative thought to be funny
received the plot for TV series and
worked with Lenny Goldberg was that a
comedy was it sitcom was it drama it's
more drama D as a dramedy I've written a
couple comedies kind of hour-long drama
DS no spec scripts have been bought I
know
because no and there are a couple
reasons for that one is that it's hard
to sell anything in this town period you
know regardless a political viewpoint
and the other is that yeah and
especially a breakout series right from
the get-go right I mean it's hard to
sell a spec script you start as a baby
writer I mean you know the process yeah
have you worked continually with one at
Goldberg since yeah I worked with him
for several months afterward and then he
got sidetracked with unknown and with
blue bloods on CBS and just under sailed
on you the frame that he's there he was
working on me on these all these
failures and then he got sidetracked
because he got a job on a series he
actually got hired as a professional
writer and I was not and so he got
sidetracked
he lost sense of the he in many respects
went AWOL explain the me water be seated
the battlefield is that like how I'm
treated to a paid job in writing he
stated the narrative isn't getting a
full-time job at a prestigious show is
that like how Maren got sidetracked
after breakroom life yeah exactly
he got sidetracked you got side to her
I've had a lot of friends so sidetracked
by taking some type of big movie job or
something it's just real where they
lose their focus
what I didn't understand is why he
wanted to do that when we couldn't watch
old clips of me on Spin City was just
about to explode and be successful and
then he decided to get sidetracked by
that other show that is yeah you know
what like everything else in Hollywood
things go into development and then they
kind of get sidetracked they go sideways
for a while so what do you think the
book will help sort of opened the door
with him again
and I wasn't the boy in the book but you
know he knew what was going on with the
book it was not a hit job on Leonard
Goldberg I treat him very well in the
book in fact most of the people in the
book I treat very well for the most part
I talk about how talented and brilliant
they are I talk about how great their
shows that are which they are and that's
not a bad thing I just pointed out that
look I'm a legal realist not a lawyer I
want Harvard Law School and in law yeah
I did there's a an idea that was
promulgated by the left in the 1960s
called legal realism what it was is the
idea that your politics are going to
come out in your interpretation of law
that is the same thing that's true in
art okay your politics are going to come
out in your creation and interpretation
of art and that's one of the points of
the book the people who I'm talking to
are not bad people a lot of them are not
some of them are not even doing it
purposefully some of them are doing it
purposefully but it's coming out in
their work and the one thing above all
that Hollywood does right now that is
utterly despicable is that they keep
people who are not of their political
ilk out of the business period end of
story I have them on tape admitting this
I have high ranking members of you know
the WGA I have high ranking members of
the caucus for producers writers and
directors I have high ranking members of
the DGA I have people talking about this
openly and recognizing that it occurs
now posit now I got to tell you that I I
was in show business I wrote I think
probably off the top of my head 8 to 10
scripts that were commissioned by every
single major network that there is some
that were and several of the cable
networks and almost the first question
you would give what they call sort of
the elevator pitch and then you would
start to go into the characters as you
go in into these meetings but before you
get to any of that was you would have to
tell them what you're voting
record was what happened to those
scripts unsightly they went works
AMC got very sidetracked I had written a
script for them and then they just sort
of pursued the walking you know I would
love to see you write an episode of The
Walking Dead that I would be the first
time I wrote exclusively comedies and
then what I would call dramedy comedy
just what we call comedies that are not
funny yeah I know what I love about this
is that he okay I didn't read this book
obviously but you know how like the the
Ben Shapiro we know now is like does not
even have a modicum of like well I mean
they're talented people he's just like
always a dick right and so my
interpretation is that this book
obviously is a plea for a job so he's
calibrating like I got to get booked and
talked with all the rubes and
about Hollywood and say that they're a
bunch of unethical elitist ramming their
culture down our throats blah blah but
at the same time you guys are all really
talented and it would be great if I get
some work in a dramedy series maybe I
wouldn't have to ride these stupid me
talking books I started doing when I was
12
wait again I think he should have
written a script about being a teen
conservative prodigy and the psychosis
of that that would have been a
fascinating dark disturbing comedy I
that would have had it too hard but
again you know this is something you
know if someone like Norman Lear he
Norman Lear funded people for American
Way had he just established a three to
five million dollar endowment to
periodically hire people like Ben
Shapiro keep them from actually feeling
the resent that fuels their entire you
know new career as a conservative talker
I think we would be in much better
leg you could have saved millions of
dollars of advocacy just by giving these
guys a job and telling them like this is
great I barely even know what this show
is but my when I first saw Andrew
Breitbart I was like why the hell that
they don't just give him talk soup right
exactly and he wouldn't be doing this
whoa I caught up with Courtney Cox at
the red at the red carpet he's partly
right though like art is always gonna be
a vehicle for ideology and Hollywood
certainly has an ideology but of the
numerous groups of people who've been
kept out of Hollywood for their ideology
I'm gonna guess he's not too concerned
about the literal purges that happened
of Communists and people suspected of
being communists no that was cool she
mentions that actually and later in the
interview it's a good one
if you just search primetime propaganda
on YouTube it'll come up
