[Music]
so speaking of talking points you know
how for years there has been this
massive concern with all of the
immigrants that are pouring into this
country from Africa at the southern
border right we've been talking about
this for years but it's obviously been
extremely hushed turn in terms because
within the course of a day
we have clips now from like what three
or four different shows on Fox that if
all of a sudden discovered that not just
folks from Latin America come into the
states through the southern border the
other day we reported on a
seven-year-old girl from India
who died in the desert around the area
where Scott Warren I think his name is
who's on trial for leaving water for
people like that around that area
Donald Trump is launching his campaign
tonight and not coincidentally he
announced that there's going to be a
massive roundup of undocumented
immigrants in the millions of course it
won't be in the millions it will be in
the thousands and because it's in the
thousands and not the millions everyone
will sigh a sigh of relief as opposed to
just the outrage and disgust that should
be involved in this type of
terrorization in the first place but
commensurate with the launching the
official launch of the Trump 2020
campaign we have a new group of people
who are not white obviously to be
worried about
according to Tucker Carlson as he talks
to Andrew Arthur of the Center for
Immigration Studies and I put that in
quotes
because their ultimate goal is to come
to the United States and live and work
here permanently and this is something
that I saw when I was an immigration
judge with Somalis it's just simply
become a new group of nationals from
Central Africa now who have heard about
how open the American borders are and
who want to come and exploit them the
population growth in that part of the
world particularly on the continent of
Africa suggests that I mean this this
flood could become a torrent no
absolutely and there's a you know
without the support of our southern
neighbors in the absence of support from
the United States Congress
we truly would just be overwhelmed with
individuals you know from poor countries
who have literally sold everything that
they had to make the journey to the
United States in fact I think the New
York Times reported one woman said she
didn't have one dollar to her name by
the time that she arrived in the United
States but they do it because they know
that they're going to come here and you
know we've been looking at a u.s. wage
every day it's a smart economic decision
to make till Congress acts it's just
going to continue right I posit is he
talking about all of our
great-grandparents in this room will
come to America with not with barely a
penny in their pocket because the
streets are paved with gold oh no he's
not he's talking about Africans it's
just gonna continue right I wish I would
do the same I don't I don't judge them I
judge our leaders are good this is it's
gonna overwhelm our country and change
it completely infirm yes can you imagine
just how dramatically different this
country would be if we had a lot of
black people here can you imagine from
Africa of all places one could only
imagine it would be definitely like
something we haven't had as a country in
fact no not the real country not the
real country well I think that's one of
the things though that really
does trigger the right in this country
is like if you go across the world you
know you can and again this is not a
justification for any like particular
policy obviously but like you can sort
of roughly you can say like look GaN is
an African country France is a European
country and they want to be able to say
the United States is a European country
but it's not
I mean United States is by definition a
outgrowth of first of all the people
that was genocided that lived here first
and then it is in fact a part of Africa
and turned in the sense of diaspora it's
a part of Europe obviously I mean the
fact that it literally cannot even be
put into that lineage really freaks
these people out just as a historical
matter of fact and the other thing
that's so disgusting by the way if
Tucker wants to say that he claims I
believe the leaders then do 50 segments
a day on debt relief for Africa and stop
you know supporting us and corporate
exploitation of the continent and deal
with those issues if you want to blame
the leaders and not people fleeing
conditions and the way that they we've
talked about their you know thing that
will be happening I'm pretty confident
that won't be happening I'm just
offering a door here their use of the
phrase west points to that envy about
like they wish they were west like
Frances West yes America's not like that
guys and West is not West either right
of car you talked about that but
particularly America mean America is
literally not a European country it is a
everything country which should in fact
be to our advantage
well it's textbook that camp of the
saints right where the these
immigrants were portrayed as these like
brown invading hordes who just bred like
animals coming to destroy the West which
was already an apocryphal idea in France
in the 1970s from the book was written
and is it spotlights how apocryphal that
is that they're talking the same way
about the US well they were
abolitionists who had racist reasons for
being abolitionists in America they
thought they're bringing too many
Africans here so we just played a clip
of Tucker Carlson can I just also had
that guy used to be an immigration judge
that should be a great and I know I know
I just wanted people to not gloss over
that another great indictment of our
system how much you want to bet how much
you want to bet I could guess who
appointed him I am sure you could guess
who I would say the name of the
president ended with the be or with T
Tucker Carlson we just watched the clip
of Tucker Carlson warning all of us but
the new flood of immigration that is
coming from Africa and how the idea of a
torrent of people from Africa will
change the country in a way that would
be almost unrecognizable goes from a
flood to a torrent flood to a torrent
and just the idea of of this many people
from Africa would just change the nature
of America which has no connection
whatsoever to Africa and never has well
maybe this is just a one-off
I mean Tucker Carlson I don't know that
it ever spoken about this before but it
couldn't be that someone is launching
their campaign tonight and really wants
to scare Americans in some way or play
on perhaps some bigoted goodness or
prejudice towards certain group of
people no that can't be because if it
was we would tune in to Laura Ingraham
after Tucker and all of a sudden she'd
be play home countries are being
basically they're repopulating Portland
Maine with a huge contingent of these
immigrants these migrants and it's
it's overwhelming the Maine authorities
I mean they're pretty liberal up there
they're like we can't take any more
people were full up but they're there
they're hoping to go there there you go
contingent this is the same you know you
note one thing whenever they're talking
about the immigrants they pause like
they're trying to search for a word and
dehumanizing language it's almost as if
like that pause communicates to their
listeners like you know what I really
want to say right but I'm on TV gotta
say immigrants or migrants that's
precisely what it who talks about a
group of people like a contingent of
people like what are you talking and I
just want to say I mean what's so like
just to draw like a really tight line
cuz she mentioned Maine so actually
before I went to base it actually had
cooled down a bit before I went there
and I would and and I would assume with
some recent things that happened after I
was there it got worse again but there's
a very big Somali and I think some
Sudanese refugee community in Lewiston
and in fact like yeah if you want to
talk about it on economic terms Lewiston
is a classic like decimated mill town
that has one ultra privileged college
that has nothing to do with the rest of
the town and yeah
these refugees came in and they did
generate some new economic activity in
the town that's literally how this works
right now this was a Mecca Mecca a mecca
excuse me of plan activity before you
know like in early aughts this was like
a major thing and they used precisely
the same rhetoric she's using now to
talk about exactly the same dynamics
that she's talking about so it's just
like whether or not it's even a direct
line it's just a replication of
something that was thought of as like
look at this horrifying oddity it was
even covered it's like you know look at
the college kids teaming up with the
immigrant community and good local
people fighting against this and now
it's talk you know talking points on
America's main cable network yeah and
you can also draw a direct line to the
great replacement panic in manifestos of
multiple white supremacist murderers
like in the recent past so this stuff
has real-world consequence of becomes a
torrent that's the only part that's have
yeah do you think anyone's ever been in
a flood and then it's like oh crap this
flood has become a torrent now let's
first it was just a flood but I can deal
with a flood but a torrent
