[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program senior
contributor and columnist at the
intercept host of their deconstructed
podcast also a presenter and interviewer
on al Jazeera English in fact you just
had Julian Castro on and I guess you
didn't necessarily plan to talk about
impeachment probably when you booked him
but Matty welcome to the program
thanks for having me Sam so let's uh I
mean let's just and and you wrote a
piece in the intercept which I think
captures my frustration at this moment
but before we get there because the it
appears that after the first hearing
yesterday which I think one could argue
would be what should be a series event
of testimony I should say regarding
impeachment and regarding the whole
Ukrainian question it sounds like Nancy
Pelosi is still going to have Congress
take a vacation for two weeks
haha you know how important vacations
are for politicians Sam it's very
important even in the middle of the
biggest political crisis of 2019 I mean
I mean Mike sorry no no please go no I
was gonna say I mean I'm torn on it on
the one hand obviously you know I'm not
gonna come here and defend people taking
vacations in the middle of like as you
know as fascists and races take over the
country on the other hand I am slightly
worried about the reports coming out
this week this is why I wrote the
intercept column about the idea that
they want to get this all done and
dusted quickly so they can get back to I
don't know what infrastructure week they
want to get this impeachment vote done
they want to narrow it down to Trump's
dealings on Ukraine and Biden they want
to get it on the floor vote it and send
it over to the Senate and that's a
problem for me because I think you only
get one shot at impeachment and that one
shot needs to cover everything Trump's
done that's impeachable which is a lot
of stuff Sam well what I am I am so
baffled by this I mean I understand it
and so far as like you know Pelosi did
not want to do this I think
it was you know and in Ryan grim over at
the intercept wrote a piece that showed
sort of that the the long journey to
this impeachment and largely it seems
that a lot of those frontline Democrats
when they went home in August uh heard
from their constituents like you got to
impeach this guy and this of course was
before the Ukraine stuff saying nobody
what nobody wants impeachment the public
doesn't want impeachment well number one
your base wants impeachment and why is
it only the Republican Party cares about
what they base once why did the
Democratic Party never care what its
base once and now you're looking at the
polls that are out this week in the
first 48 hours after you know the
transcript has come out of the phone
call the whistleblower complaint you'll
seen the polling already shifting
already so you know those of us who said
public opinion will move as leadership
is shown I think we've already been
vindicated in the space of 48 hours I
think over the space of next three to
six months will be vindicated further
and and I would say this that not only
is the polling move by seven points but
there was a Business Insider had a poll
that shows that not only do people you
know we have forty three percent now
saying that he should be impeached but
when you look at at this polling 38
percent think an inquiry is the right
thing to do and will help Democrats
electoral II 19 percent think an inquiry
is the right thing to do but will hurt
Democrats electoral II so even though
those numbers only forty three percent
this should be done a lot of that
hesitation is a sort of like a you know
the American voters you know pundits
saying like I don't think there's a
heavy good politically which is one of
the biggest problems we have in politics
right now especially on the left and the
center left is every voter thinks that
they are some sort of pundit or pollster
or you know player in the game so for
example if you look at the presidential
primaries right now you ask people who
do you think should be the candidate Joe
Biden is it cuz you love Joe Biden nope
it's because I think Joe Biden is the
person who's gonna beat Donald Trump
well you don't know that you're just
going with the crowd and you know you're
going with conventional wisdom which is
very much wrong in this case I would
argue
similarly on impeachment do you want to
impeach drop of course easy he's you
know if he's not worthy of a patron who
is but why aren't you back
oh well I think it will hurt Democrats
come next year because the Senate will
never vote for it so there's all this
conventional wisdom doing the rounds
which a lot of Democratic voters have
wrongly imbibed in my view I think
they're wrong about Biden I think he's
the candidate who is most likely to
deliver a trump second term and I think
they're wrong about impeachment we
forget so quickly that Bill Clinton was
impeached he was not removed from office
and yet the Republicans won the White
House in 2000 less than two years later
right and and and I mean I want to
interrogate just a little bit more
because I think what it is and look I
saw this after eight years of Reagan
Bush the the sort of the fear in
exhaustion that Democrats had and they
were you know the the huge sigh of
relief when Clinton got in I saw this
after george w bush at least in 2004
where there was a sort of like notion we
got to go with some type of safe choice
there is a fear I mean and you know I
think it's a legitimate fear that Donald
Trump will win re-election that the
Democratic leadership fails it seems to
me too to project any type of strength
or confidence in any situation and the
that sends a cue to the voters as well
exactly I think you're right about the
cues and you know as I wrote in my
intercept column yesterday I quoted the
famous Israeli Foreign Minister on you
know his put-down of the Palestinians at
the UN that the Democrats never miss an
opportunity to miss an opportunity this
is a huge opportunity now the chance to
impeach a president with legitimate
cause not the kind of spurious
impeachment the Republicans did against
Bill Clinton but a very legitimate
impeachment which even Rapinoe some
Republicans a tiny handful of
Republicans like Justin Amash who is a
Republican even though he's left the
party have said there's a very clear
case for impeaching him over mullah a
thousand former federal prosecutors
including many who served under Bush and
Reagan have come out and said yes
impeach him over obstruction of justice
and I think you'll see more you know
starting to peel away not many but
you'll see some and that's that's a
problem when the Democrats themselves
don't want to show that leadership I
think that was that somebody made a gag
earlier this week you know William weld
former Republican governor
who's running against Trump in the
primaries if the Republicans even allow
primaries he's trying to challenge from
he said Trump should be executed for
treason which is Isaac ridiculously over
the top but isn't ironic that a
Republican guys calling for the
execution of Trump while Nancy Pelosi up
until Tuesday four o'clock
didn't even want to impeach the guy and
now so okay so no she doesn't want to
impeach him but then she makes the
decision all right we have to go through
it what is the rationale that if we do
this really quickly like what I mean
like I don't understand what the theory
is here like I can understand like III
don't agree with it but I can understand
why she was afraid of it but it's like
what now what's the argument well we
impeached but we did it really quick
like I don't understand the theory
either because I was having a
conversation with a colleague who was
reading my piece and who said you know
well what do you want you know what's
what's wrong with just getting him it's
a slam dunk do you crane be done with it
you win the vote the public are on board
and I said well you have to take a step
back and ask what is the point of
impeachment so for me there's only two
purposes to impeachment number one to
morally draw a line in the sand and say
this is wrong for the sake of history
with one eye on history you say that we
did not sit silently while this
neo-fascist you know abused children at
the border and obstructed justice on a
daily basis and enriched himself at the
US taxpayers expense and involved
himself in campaign finance crimes in
front of our eyes all of the many
impeachable offenses that he's done we
didn't sit quietly we draw a line in the
sand we impeach them in the House of
Representatives that's one argument the
other argument is the political argument
which is actually will hurt Trump the
idea that it won't hurt Trump the idea
that Trump wants to go into the next
election having been one of only three
men in human history to be impeached by
the House of Representatives is absurd
there's no scenario in which the most
thin-skinned narcissistic egomaniacal
megalomaniacal individual in the United
States of America right now who's
obsessed with comparing himself to
Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan and
others it's going to be okay about being
impeached
impeach or that that won't harm him and
the idea that Nancy Pelosi is we'd get
this done in a rush a that doesn't deal
with the moral question of why you're
leaving out all these other crimes high
crimes and misdemeanors he's committed
and it doesn't deal with the political
question which is if you get this done
by November then what what you've got a
party to go to
you've got hair to wash what is the
ruch you're gonna get back to
legislating Nancy Pelosi knows better
than you and I do Sam that her bills are
stuck in the Senate the same Senate
that's gonna vote down impeachment is
also not passing any of her bills yeah i
and i would add actually a - - a - the
political calculation you're making
because once you force a vote on
impeachment
it's basically everybody is declared I'm
either detecting Donald Trump or I'm out
to hold him to account and that is
something that the Democrats have always
had trouble doing is nationalizing
congressional races and senatorial races
and this seems to me to be a perfect way
to nationalize all these races you go in
it's very quite simple this guy voted to
protect Donald Trump and you choose now
it's simple for you and I Sam it's
simple for a lot of voters it's not
simple for a lot of the democratic
political elites that's the reality the
reality is that you have senators like
Dianne Feinstein's saying well do I want
to lose Susan Collins from the Senate
she's literally said that openly on the
record an absurd statement to me for
senator Susan Collins who thanks to her
Brett Kavanaugh is on the Supreme Court
you have Joe Biden recent reporting has
revealed that Joe Biden said to Mitch
McConnell we hope to see you back Mitch
we want to see you get you he said that
Biden so when you have leading members
of the Democratic Party saying you know
we're kind of okay with our Republican
colleagues we dined together we go to
the gym together whip towels when you
have Carla Harris even standing on the
debate stage the other they're referring
to quote the late great John McCain
which i think is an absurd statement to
make about a former Republican
presidential candidate who for his
entire life until that health care vote
voted against Democratic Party interests
again and again and again when you have
that kind of mindset at the top of the
party yeah it sounds easy in theory for
you and I'd say it's obvious this is the
political move to make
but Democrat don't like wielding power
and they don't like as you say
nationalizing races and really kind of
putting their opponents under pressure
that's why we're not seeing it across
the broad impeachment that's why up
until Tuesday 4:00 p.m. Nancy Pelosi the
most she had ever done you know to take
on Trump and censure him for his
ridiculous conduct was you know some
strongly worded tweets and some threats
from a podium but not actually any kind
of censure on the floor of a body
she controls have you I mean have you
run into anybody you yourself or anybody
who's done any reporting that can that
has at least articulated a strategy of
impeaching quickly like I I mean I I
mean I the it just seems to me that like
once you've impeached you're gonna pay
the price you might as well if you think
that's the idea like you're gonna pay a
price you might as well get something
out of it but do they think that it will
like if they impeach and it's not like
it doesn't go to April or something that
somehow it's gonna demotivate Republican
voters I don't I don't quite get it I
think we just I think we just lost them
Maddie you there well bear with us folks
no we'll just I'm anywhere we're on the
air are you there hello Maddie
alright folks give us a second
we'll be right back
you
well we lost him for a moment I was
saying I was asking if you had heard
anybody first hand or if you had heard
anybody who reported you know has been
reporting on this as to like the strata
like the what is the theory though that
like if we get impeachment over quickly
the the pain that we will feel from
impeachment will go away even if we vote
to impeach him like I don't understand
what they leaving the theory is I don't
think they thought that far ahead I
think just thought about internal party
unity there but what I my understanding
is that there are these kind of
frontline Democrats aerozine Democrats
in swing through one Republican seats in
2018 who have always been nervous about
impeachment and this is the only issue
that will get them on board because it's
a national security issue it's an
international issue you know the
Democrats love to get buying national
security consensus and this is seen as
Trump you know undermining American
national security and foreign policy and
therefore this is the issue that they'll
come on board but they won't come on
board naked corruption or campaign
finance violations or blatant
obstruction of justice ten cases laid
out at the mother of four but for this
they will and it's the sake of party
unity that Nancy Pelosi will get behind
and do this vote it's clean it's easy
it's a unique issue they think it's
easily understandable by the way extent
Evora said on the record this is easy to
understand Debbie Dingell from Michigan
Pelosi ally and the leadership have said
this is easy to understand which I find
a kind of patronizing idea you know
voters only understand this and they
don't understand you know hush money
paid to stormy Daniels they don't
understand
Trump enriching himself at the taxpayers
expense I think that's far easier to
understand and also this idea that you
know their story itself is that easy to
understand I would argue you know in the
big picture yes but once you start the
Republicans start you know throwing crap
against the wall in terms of Hunter
Biden
you know it's kind of muddy the water
people at home we don't follow this
closely you know I worry that they will
hear you know Democrats saying this
about Trump and the president no Hill
Republicans talking about on to by the
prosecutor and there might both sides it
which is a slight worry I mean it's a
small or anything is that big a worry
but it's weird to say we can't impeach
them on other issues because they're
more complicated how is it complicated
to say the Trump obstructed justice how
does it complicated that the
vice-president I just spent 600 grand
of taxpayers money on limos driving from
Trump's golf course in Ireland where he
decided to stay instead of the capital
of the country well and we also now have
reports that Richard Neal the chairman
of the House Ways and Means Committee
has been sitting on another
whistleblower report from we don't know
exactly whom but someone probably in the
IRS that donald trump has been
interfering with the IRS audit of his
taxes or something to that effect and we
don't know exactly
neil is also the guy all remind people
that refused essentially to get Donald
Trump's taxes from New York State who
had voted a lot basically provided for
him and why wouldn't you say like wait a
second before before we exhaust impeach
because we can't impeach him twice
that's never gonna happen shouldn't we
also like hear from this whistleblower
and I I am just I mean for the life of
me I don't even understand what these
frontline Democrats why they think they
can impeach in November and people are
gonna forget eight months later or
something and and you know I understand
the idea for party unity and that maybe
the entire party 230 people have to move
somewhere because of the seven that
they're talking about but if Donald
Trump realizes that like hey I got
impeached and nothing happened what does
he do then Justin is in the members for
political point of view give him a year
to rewrite the narrative and talk his
nonsense as he has done post mullah and
the idea you wouldn't keep him on the
defensive
you wouldn't be demanding documents you
would be subpoena mean witnesses you
wouldn't be holding televised hearings
it's absurd I mean the damage that was
done to Nixon was over the course of a
year in the early 70s between the Senate
Watergate committee setting up and
between the House Judiciary Committee
drafting articles of impeachment by the
way just on a historical point a lot of
people aren't aware of this
there was three articles of impeachment
against Richard Nixon which were passed
there were two others that didn't pass
one of them was late for the bombing of
Cambodia
so yes the House Democrats at the time
did decide to bring in other things
other
okay into that impeachment hearings and
their articles of impeachment themselves
were pretty detailed and lengthy I'm in
terms of Andrew Johnson the first
president to ever be impeached eleven
articles of impeachment were brought
against him by the House of
Representatives clean and narrow is a
historical we haven't done this very
often the United States has not done
impeachment very often and when they
have it hasn't been in this way so
there's much president fort Pelosi and
Co we're doing and I just think it's
badness to kind of Congress has these
powers why laterally disarming and
remember Pelosi families do what telling
us until very recently he wants to be
impeached which i think is the most
ridiculous conspiracy theory of our time
goes into impeaching him she said in a
public event a few months ago yeah I
think that Donald trum wanted to be
impeach was absurd there it's definitely
absurd now when you look at his twitter
feed and see how are you eating well you
can also see that they have basically
sent out an army of about 30 lawyers to
challenge everything in the courts and
tie it all up and she also said at one
point on national television that if we
impeach him then he can't be indicted
when he leaves office which is
categorically not only categorically
untrue i think like literally in the
impeachment I can't remember what
article it is in the Constitution but it
says literally that you can be you crane
court Robert Milo said on the twenty
fourth of July in Congress that he could
be indicted after he's left office yeah
that night that evening the Democrats
took no steps to turn Mahler's testimony
into any kind of censure or impeachment
articles the very next day the 25th of
July
Donald Trump you think hey what happened
to me even after Muller testifies makes
the call to the Ukrainian right and you
know III
I've also find it hard to believe that
if he's leveraging if he's willing to do
this with Ukraine why would anyone
assume like this is this is his one
little weakness he likes to leverage the
government to get to benefit himself but
only with Ukraine with everybody else
he's absolutely by the book that's the
one thing about as we now as we now know
about this their latest stuff is the
power of just calling for impeachment
we've seen documents handed over
we've seen evidence now not just of the
abuse of power but the cover-up this
idea that they had taken this transcript
and put it in a place where you're not
supposed to put it with ie sensitive
intelligence material which a lot of
legal experts are saying is evidence of
a cover-up
I've lived other concealment of breaking
the law forget if you've done it for
this one cause you tell mean there's not
dozens of other transcripts of dozens of
other calls knocking about how you gonna
get them if you rush through impeachment
by November these things take time
go get the document do the digging the
Republicans had no story in Benghazi and
yet they went on three heels holding
hearings costing the taxpayers billions
of dollars investigating again and again
after eight investigations they still
set up the house Benghazi committee to
go after Hillary Clinton and they no
family donor but they did some serious
damage to her reputation out of a
presidential campaign well I think this
case you could actually damage Trump
attention and behind actual dirt it was
the sixth I think investigation of
Benghazi where they came up with the
email server frankly all right well let
me ask you just know we don't have too
much time left here but let me just ask
you a couple of specifics here bill Barr
the this complaint went to the
Department of Justice the OLC
they decided no note there's nothing
there's no they're there and dismissed
it out of hand he it seems to me the
bill bar in addition to everybody who
basically conspired to to take this call
and immediately bury it in the most
sensitive essentially safe that the u.s.
government has are involved in a
cover-up I mean to what extent do you
think that the Democrats should be
bringing in bill bar or at least you
know this is a problem and this is this
is the bill Barr who when he was
appointed a lot of sensible people did
point out that he was going to be Donald
Trump's Roy Cohen this personal corrupt
lawyer that Donald Trump employed in the
eighties he's always wanted his own
droid code and he wasn't he didn't think
Jeff Sessions was that person he finally
got that person in bill bar and yeah
we've seen up in the ala report in terms
of the way this led people around the
Muller report in terms of but his
testimony in Congress where he dodged
the question about whether
he opened investigations into anyone
anyone comes from West we now know from
the from the phone call trans the phone
call salaries not a transcript that he
was asked to do so by the president the
fewer times Michelle Goldberg did an
op-ed today headlines just how corrupt
is Bill Bar and the answer is very very
very corrupt Democrats shouting this
from the rooftops that the DOJ is there
long as it ever was an attorney general
is corrupt and he should be impeached as
well at the very minimum at the moment
to recuse himself commit the
whistleblower those two goes to the
Inspector General of intelligence
community and says hey I've got a
complaint about Donald Trump having
improper conversations with the foreign
governments involved in attorney general
and in the DOJ led by the Attorney
General just yeah we're not we're not
allowing you to send this complaint to
Congress I mean how is that not a
massive conflict
how can anyone even was loyal right-wing
Republican with a straight face justify
that and and people should understand I
mean the moment the bill bar came out
and basically did his version of ill on
Omar and the squad should go back to
where they came from and he followed
that up in a in a much more sort of I
guess dignified manner in which he
articulated people need to understand
that leaving bill bar unscathed is
highly problematic because if you're one
of those people who thinks that Donald
Trump may not be so easily quick to
leave office even if he loses it's all
gonna be a function of whether bill bar
ties it up and and if bill bar is is
left his reputation is continued to be
unsullied and there is a there's no
attempt to sort of you know dig into
what this guy's been doing adds a a roy
cohn for Trump I think it's gonna be
highly probable Emmy a skew another
question but just very quickly on Barr
people aren't aware of this this is not
his first rodeo right served on the
George HW Bush and helped him cover up
iran-contra and hand out a bunch of
pardons to people who were going to
basically implicate George HW Bush in
the iran-contra affair so he's done this
before he's been covering up stuff in
Washington DC for decades well he's
what is going on with Volker what do you
know about kurt volker
I mean cult Volkers is the guy that well
that is was the Ambassador to Ukraine he
is the guy who Giuliani seems to be
trying to argue somehow excope it's it's
sculpt Ettore for him that he was
invited to go by the State Department to
deal with Ukraine it doesn't it sort of
begs the questions like why is the State
Department doing this but Volcker
apparently is unpaid were you aware that
he is like a just enemy a liaison there
who is apparently unpaid who has he's
just a guy who apparently is doing the
US State Department a favor I didn't
know that but it doesn't surprise me Sam
because all of these figures in all of
these circles I mean what I was doing
that Volker Giuliani
I mean the Rudy Giuliani most amazing
stories of this presidency in terms of
is his big mouth and tragic bass yeah
and brazen lying regularly on live TV is
that what is that what's going to screw
over Trump in the long run every time he
opened his mouth it seems like he does
some kind of damage but I know there's a
theory circulating in some sort of they
want him out there distracting and
pesonally expose or I buy that because
he's so unpredictable and so unhinged
you know this guy was once mayor of New
York and seen as a serious Republican
presidential candidate and I think all
of these people in Trump's all but all
of these people floating around Ukraine
they all need to be investigated they
all need to be put on the record of
Chris Hayes tweet about last night get
all these people subpoena them put them
under oath ask them these questions
takes time I hope they have the time to
do that and yeah as you said just now
the sixth Benghazi hearing found the
email server knows what you're gonna
find when you start you know that most
of us didn't know Volcker even existed
until 24 36 hours ago so how many other
people out there we don't own exist but
we know that you know Trump employs all
sorts of people
Trump's fixers employ all sorts of
people now we know the State Department
Mike Pompeo is involved in all this I
mean I can't even follow it could be
honest I was Gary I kind of install all
the links here it's so ridiculous I mean
I saw Giuliani waving posting a text
from the state park they
in the part of his ongoing round with
the State Department what his role was
this all has to be investigated and
after particular seriously but my worry
is that you know there's a rush we even
miss things on Ukraine a best-case
scenario you get impeachment on Ukraine
and you said okay we impeach the
president worst case scenario you eff up
the entire Ukraine think of the
Democrats tend to F things up I would
like to see something more than both
that best case and worst case now as I
say I go back to the beginning of our
combination I would like to held to
account and impeached or torturing
children at the border for being
involved Michael Cohen in paying illegal
hush money to stormy Daniels on the eve
of the election whatever get elected for
obstructing justice on ten different
occasions and the mother of four pointed
out for illegally trying to divert aid
from Puerto Rico where 3,000 Americans
died and diverting it to Texas and
Louisiana that simply chable for
threatening to use the US government to
go after Amazon the Washington Post
that's impeachable I would like to see
those things held up there's no reason
the Democrats can't do all of this I
don't buy that they can't do all of this
course I can I agree with you
Mehdi Hassan thank you so much for your
time today really appreciate it thanks
Sam
