Farren in the first segment we were
talking our general over you know broad
perspectives on the Muller hearings you
were a little bit less impressed than I
was in terms of the information that
came out where there are specific
moments though that you thought were
important and that will function I mean
because really the bottom line here
right is will this in any way move the
ball forward for more or oversight and
specifically get us closer to having
impeachment hearings well I think in
terms of getting us closer to having
impeachment hearings we've obviously
seen a lot of calls for that you know
just since the hearings took place but
we're not hearing it from the leadership
and I don't think we're going to hear it
from the leadership I mean short of him
coming out yesterday or Wednesday CV is
sitting down and saying listen I've got
all kinds of stuff to tell you guys let
me list all the crimes I haven't told
you short of him doing that I don't
think anything was going to move the
ball with Pelosi on the issue of
impeachment and obviously that didn't
happen you know as I mentioned you know
the reason I think this whole thing to
me was a little bit of you know what's
the point was because of the hype around
it you know especially when we get those
reports that came out on Tuesday from
Politico that the Democrats were going
all in this was going to be their thing
they had the media response team they
had people sitting by on Twitter to
tweet out you know all the the horrible
things that we were gonna find out they
were going to use it actually this was
the play they were gonna use these
hearings to somehow try to shame the
Senate Democrats into passing election
security bills this was their plan as if
those people can be shamed into doing
anything it's so seeing the hype on that
and and obviously spending probably a
little too much time on social media
people thinking that Muller's going to
save us that was never gonna happen but
but as you pointed out we did get some
great stuff absolutely and Moeller made
it clear this is not an exoneration by
any stretch of the imagination
had it not been for the OLC we probably
would have gone ahead and gone forward
with charges and obviously one of the
big ones when he leaves office assuming
that's in twenty twenty twenty-one in
January you can still prosecute him so
that door has not shut yet it will
likely be shut if he gets reelected but
those were some of the big moments
obviously and of course the massive
discussion of election interference and
I think that is what Muller desperately
wanted to get across to the public more
than anything else that yeah there was
interference yes it benefited Donald
Trump but guess what it's still
happening today and something has to be
done about that yeah I agree with you
and I you know I think that we're
probably gonna move impeachment a little
bit closer I mean Nancy Pelosi maybe the
idea is that she was going to you know
people claim that she has some type of
like ten dimensional chess going on here
she's clearly trying to run out the
clock I think it's a huge mistake I
think we enter into an impeachment
inquiry knowing that the Republicans in
the Senate will not will not vote on it
the the only other thing I could
speculate on is that Chuck Schumer is so
weak that he is afraid that he cannot
even carry the Democratic caucus in such
a vote in the event that in the event
that Mitch McConnell would hold a vote I
suspect that is what is the biggest fear
frankly is that the the Democrats in the
Senate would be afraid to a vote for
impeachment and that would embarrass a
lot of the people in the house and by
embarrass I mean severely hurt their
re-election chances if you can't even
get the Democratic caucus in the Senate
but nevertheless it's an important
opportunity to put Republicans on the
spot for their support for a criminal
president and we're going to have you
know 14 15 months between now and the
election and if the Democrats do not do
something and let's be clear here right
they they have passed
fifty-five maybe 60 now bills that is
really very close to the the wish list
of you know the 75% of the wish list of
Democrats right we're talking about
things like rolling back Citizens United
things like $15 minimum wage etc etc etc
and no one has paid attention
no one has cared largely I imagined
because these are you know largely
symbolic votes because we don't have a
president who will sign any of them and
also I think people don't care because
Donald Trump is the name of the game and
the bottom line is is that if you're not
going to perform oversight
you're not going to impeach and you've
run out of bills dream bills to pass
what do you intend to do for the next
year and a half and why would you assume
that Republicans not under pressure are
not going to start digging into you know
Benghazi part 11 or whatever it is like
this is this is the the the huge
miscalculation here and I just thought
that the Democrats particularly on the
judiciary I didn't think they did a very
good job I thought Nadler did good at
the beginning and I thought there was
though a Lauren got a couple of good
questions in can buck a Republican
accidentally stepped in it you know got
to UM Muller to say that you could
charge the president after the the fact
David's chicolini from Rhode Island got
Mullard to make it clear that yes you
can be charged with obstruction even if
it's unsuccessful even if there's no
underlying crime both those instances
Cedric Richmond got Muller to agree the
Trump administration falsified records
to protect Trump Val Demmings get
smarter to agree that the Trump campaign
impeded the investing
Asian like I said you had Maloney on the
issue of subpoena also in the
Intelligence Committee
you had Muller going so far as to not
say the word impeach he said well the
the constitutional processes are one of
those things you just mentioned right I
mean it was absurd it was like asking
like I don't know a cat to touch its paw
on a subtype of a button but I'll give
you the last word we got 30 seconds left
Ferran what do you think we can expect
going forward and we just going to
forget about this or what see I don't
think it gets forgotten and I think the
the people in the house who are pushing
for impeachment and we're hearing it
from more and more presidential
candidates you Elizabeth Warren's out
there saying it but an impeachment
inquiry this obstruction of justice has
to be the you know basically the
foundation of it but you've got to also
expand it to emoluments violations the
the bank records the tax returns you
know up in New York especially all of
that needs to be part of it and and we
could get it done or at least get enough
info in 12 months to really show the
public who this guy is and the inquiry
has to happen I don't care if Pelosi
thinks it's a bad idea it's probably one
of the best ways to ensure a victory in
2020
