[Music]
I'm from a 6-1 to area code who's this
where you come from
hi this is bolt rock bullfrog what's uh
what's up what what's it Oh Oh rod
Prague oh my gosh thank you so much we
love your the work you've done thank you
yeah I'm always tickled when you guys
comment on it it's amazingly probably a
little bit bad just to remind folks of
what we're talking about this is an
incredible accomplishment this and and
so that we can get beer good this of
course is full Prague right here all
right so now that we have you on the
phone okay posit now that we have you on
the phone how did you what it what what
was what did it start as like did you
first put together the audio or did you
have like a notion in your head like how
did it start
well like I've been listening to you for
years and years and I have all of these
memories of different memes and inside
jokes bouncing around in my head and
then DJ Danner key had that fun house
song come out and I write music to as a
hobby now but yeah I just sat down one
Friday night and like spent eight hours
and hours going through old clips and
episodes and picking out funny phrases
and little things and then kind of group
jump into something that seemed like
they made a narrative and then wrote
some music and just kind of formed it
into a kind of rhythmic speaking as you
can say yeah and then and then and then
you you did the animation yeah I had to
teach myself how to do the animation cuz
I showed a few people the the song and I
could see there are kind of
she was trying to follow along and I had
this vision in my head of what was gone
on and yeah I basically just used like
PowerPoint and iMovie to to make an
animation for it and then added a bunch
of little other inside jokes like my my
favorite little Easter egg in there is
when you and Michael her talkin loud
making new moves or whatever and
Michael's drinking Shibley yep which
that's it reach my joke back from like
the Occupy Wall Street era yes you were
teasing them about being hung over
coming and saying that he drank too much
to believe that night just yep I
remember every time I would have a
laminated copy of my pay stubs during
the Shapley jokes like really yeah yeah
yeah right his drinking rainwater with
five roommates wasn't high quality
Chablis two-buck Chuck oh yeah no I've
noticed the Chablis all the time I
didn't even think that was a the III I
mean I I remember that bullfrog it's
every part of this is I mean you
literally can come up there's think
there's new things that I notice every
single time yes I'm still I still see
new things that I am amazed by this
crowd never gets tired of art that's
about well it it really is a masterpiece
and and I'm it really like honestly I
can't thank you enough I like how the
math gate stuff in there because that
was a different time the math gay thing
was yes yeah thank you I clips I clip
all of your reactions to it and I'm not
feeling down and I go back and watch you
guys laugh no it's it's it's hysterical
I also really I mean it's less I guess
it's less prominent but the I thought
the the Dave Rubin video you did as well
was it also masterful work no can you
not hear Michael good oh sorry
oh yeah I was just gonna say I also
think Dave rube
the video you did was masterful oh thank
you yeah yeah that was that was a fun
little you know that one thing while I
was teaching myself how to animate so
that's the one that begins with day more
and Rubin and then it just left his best
debate Sam cedar hey Dave this is a very
brave love on your part oh yeah yeah s
JW nonsense Dave Rubin he's gonna
absolutely need to be exposed
there was like 14 videos our friends
creative awesome people on youtubes
basically everybody I love I love we I
mean I don't think it's a few more
seconds of being indulgent here but
there's that james woolsey david cameron
like mashed up so random shot of me with
skrillex there too that's a deep cut the
jesus image in that one is a lot
actually does have a similar energy I
gotta say in terms of his persecution
complex got a got a sake just can't
thank you enough
really the just the hours of enjoyment
that we have gotten from this day's so
I'm glad to hear that that's great
thanks for not very Matt and even the
elusive Brendan also just on top of
everything else as much as I like to
watch you squirm I I'm I'm one of those
they people so in case you're worried
about pronouns one of the very people
who got it day them yeah I'm a day
person saying how can we possibly use
that that why would I know I don't know
how to address you that it's a real
problems literally not a word now what's
the history except for the times that
I've used it on Twitter that someone
referred to a person as they someone
pointed out that the great thing with
Ben Shapiro is that there is literally
always a tweet so like there was we did
that yesterday
well no no about David Koch oh no no
there was one where he's like you ghouls
David cow exported marriage equality
which was like not really the point of
why those of us were celebrating David
Pope's death and then of course there
was a meet and you know what's funny is
honestly there is a part of me that I I
don't I don't take offense to that I
think some people want to try to
maintain some standards in general and I
don't have a problem with that but ben
shapiro immediately of course there's
screenshots of like essentially like
basically I'm happy Howard Zinn is dead
hopefully like the clock is like clothes
on Chomsky too it's like all right just
every single time with that case a
little bastard well raagh again thank
you so much I'm so glad you called a are
a i bureau I really I'm so
excited to know how you you conceived of
that at least I mean that that process
is fascinating to me that that it was
just basically the way that you group
that together also inspirational kids if
you want to learn technical skills you
can do it yes you got an autodidact
I actually really quick Bull Prague and
for all creative people out there
Kyle kolinsky the other day shared with
me a 2014 Dave Rubin on TYT defending
the Israeli bombardment of Gaza I'll
just say that clips one of the funniest
things I've seen in quite some time
like if the content was not so
disturbing watch Dave simultaneously
clearly talking about the only subject
area that he actually cares about which
right offending Israel and just being
completely there's one part we're just
saying I know you trust the government
stuff but maybe this is one time when we
do trust them that Hamas looks like such
a dope I appreciate the call better with
the beard Dave I'll give them that
that's Lena right she's got this big
vacant look it's facing you just
literally just think yeah no I do that
we should like bomb schools and stuff
but Ivy baby you do the Israelis are
trying it's actually beautiful because
it's just like the libertarian stuff
it's just like the distilled essence of
what everybody says when they defend
Israel just pare down to rock outfit
yeah right now without any of the nobler
accoutrements
