[Music]
all right let's uh let's turn to this
before we we get to bed and Dixon I I
have to tell you that I I know I there
are times where I don't get too
emotional in situations like this but I
found this really moving Meghan McCain
has been taking Lana Mars comments and
has been really devastating for her can
I just ask we know this all the things
that they're said and go back and forth
and Meghan has been really really strong
you know throughout this entire period
where we have seen such an increase in
hate groups and in in physical violence
and by the right and she has been a real
trooper
but this she's never prevaricated I mean
any single instance whether it's Trump
or whether it's an interesting that she
wouldn't she has been totally 100%
opposed to all forms of bigotry and but
she's just hit her limit with what's
happening when we had Barrett I know let
me just finish when we had Barry Weiss
on as an expert in what is anti-semitic
and what isn't I asked her is it okay to
talk about Israel's policies and not be
called anti-semitic she said she said
yes she said where it crosses the line
is when you say that Israel does not
have the right to exist that that is
when it crosses the line now Ola has
never suggested that Israel does not
have the right to it what she has so to
me it seems to me that Republicans are
trying to use this as a wedge issue I'm
really not I think that you know this
selective outrage is kind of crazy
because I don't think that the
Republicans have moral high ground here
it seems like Democrats are pet Kevin
McCarthy has you
is this anti slip these anti-semitic
tropes I think that Jim Jordan just
really you know sweetnesses against Tom
stock ends and right remember that Ilhan
Omar in the West Virginia Republican
Party just had this huge poster
superimposed with her face with 9/11
terrorist and I haven't heard any
outrage about that KY take this very
personally as a woman of color who has
you know been the subject of so much
bigotry and what a lot of people don't
know is that my grandfather is Jewish he
is a Sephardic Jew and so I have you
know my family members have received a
lot of bigotry so but I can tell you
I've experienced firsthand in my family
anti-semitism and bigotry for being
black and so I I just I so you know I
paused for a second that is a sunny
Hostin who is now like my favorite
daytime talk-show versatile endless
hazel eyes that were you gonna go back
because really now I said well so Megan
is trying to interrupt sunny throughout
this and she can't and even Abby
Huntsman was trying to interrupt sunny
throughout this and she can't Sunday
just like blew through her and so I have
a feeling the fact that Megan was you
know feels ganged up on by joy and sunny
I mean this is so silly that we're
talking about this but millions of
people get their perspective on these
things through this I mean this is this
the view is so much more effective in
getting a political message across than
this program that it is impossible for
me to even contemplate so this stuff is
relevant and so sunny and joy are
basically you know taking the lead here
and I think that's as much of a reason
why Megan McCain get so emotionally or
anything else watch this and so I I just
I so you know it's just a distraction
that are comfortable with
so she also said Israel has hypnotized
the world suggested that Jews in Israel
have bought us politicians all about the
Benjamins implied that American Jews
have divided loyalties and it's okay for
people to question cousins was it none
of this is true the only thing she did
say was that Israel has hypnotized the
world and I and I would take issue with
the word hypnotized because really what
they have done is sent out squads of
former Mossad agents in private
organizations to change and to
intimidate literally to intimidate
people who critique Israel in this
country that's not hypnosis in many
respects it's worse and this is
something that she tweeted in 2012
deleted and apologized for and frankly I
gotta tell you like it may be
inappropriate language for a
congressperson because you're in a con
you know like I tell my son hey we're at
a restaurant don't keep talking about
your penis cuz not that there's anything
wrong with your penis but just like it's
just there are things that are more
appropriate in other situations at home
you can talk about it with me if you
want yeah it's like her third language
though it's not on her if she didn't
know the association with that word but
even if she meant it as she did the
reality is we know that there is and I
personally know this and I mentioned
this the other day like you know Israel
is extremely aggressive in in dealing
with their critics and you know from
whether I was on a radio show and I get
it contacted from the Israeli embassy
the next day I critique Israel or
whether they're sending out former
Mossad agents to harass people and this
is all well documented I mean there was
a story this past week in it so but
everything else she says about the dual
loyalties and referring to Jews simply
did not happen this is
getting your your news from the Daily
Caller
and their interpretation of what she
said
allegiance to a foreign country I again
say why this obsession with Jerusalem in
Israel why this obsession with this
specific area of the country and as you
said posit she also is a huge critic of
Saudi Arabia which Meghan McCain doesn't
know because Meghan McCain has done
nothing except for read the Daily Caller
about this as you said as you've said
many times these are dog-whistle
comments for poor Jewish Americans they
are and they hear what she's saying and
she not apologizing that it is
disingenuous abiding party to go after
the start point when they are backing a
president so who is in bed with Tate is
committing human rights violation since
we're talking about about I take this
very personally I would go so far as to
say I probably done being a Zionist as
well but I will say that I don't have
family that is Jewish but Joe Lieberman
and Hadassah Lieberman are my family
yeah and I take the hate crimes rising
in this country incredibly seriously and
I think what's happening in Europe is
really scary and I'm getting emotional
but the idea that this is politicized
I'm really not I was very nervous to
talk about this on this show because I
thought it would become politicized and
it really shouldn't be on both sides it
should be called out and just because I
don't technically have Jewish family
that are blood related to me it doesn't
mean I don't take this as seriously and
it is very dangerous very dangerous and
I think we all collectively as Americans
on both sides and what ill on home art
is saying it's very scary to me and it's
very scary to a lot of people and I
don't think you have to be Jewish to
recognize and instead of a resolution
lovely view just from the Democrats
I'm tired of the selective outrage and I
hope that we have enjoyed
and from the Democrats I would be in
favor of a joint resolution well
actually because I'm not Jewish doesn't
mean I can't do fake outrage and
ridiculous crass identity politics
incidentally I have to say to defend the
Jewish people you pick two of the worst
Jewish people in human history Joe and
Hadassah Lieberman well did you hear
completely out of the mainstream
marginal and Jewish thought and so you
know the you don't have to be Jewish
to be outraged at Ilan Omar's comments
and actually it's probably a liability
it to that end because I am quite
confident and we haven't seen any
polling but I am quite confident that
the majority of Jews in this country are
not concerned with her comments well I
also have to say too in addition to how
disgusting and fake that came off to me
and how of course Joe Lieberman is not
helping your case I'm gonna go back to
Hillary Clinton Chelsea Clinton's trash
disgusting tweets about Olano March
lecturing her on not only anti-semitism
but but actually citizenship in this
country a couple of weeks ago and so
like what is it with trust fund baby
children of prominent politicians who
had everything handed to them impugning
the integrity and patriotism of somebody
who came from a refugee camp to be in
Congress who has worked more hard and is
more self-made in an afternoon than they
are in a lifetime it's disgusting
no she poses a threat to the bipartisan
neoconservative foreign policy consensus
therefore she's very dangerous to them
and you know they're gonna use whatever
underhanded means they can to silence
her I also think Megan McCain is the
Mary to the head of the Federalists
which maybe doesn't have the same weepy
relationship to Joe Lieberman yeah
here's a couple of here's a couple of
just headlines from the Federalist Steve
Bannon isn't anti-semitic because Jewish
girls are whiny that's kind of funny I'm
sorry well it's it's not a funny it's
also true but I would say that you know
again what's
great about this is like these are
people that first of all Republicans
spend all day either just denying actual
acts of racism or any other form of
bigotry or if they're Meghan McCain and
they want plausible deniability they
pretend that something isn't there and
now sudden they can impune subtlety when
it comes to her alright we gotta take a
break when we come back
