[Music]
so in Brazil it's been an interesting
couple of weeks there's a couple of
things that have been happening one Lula
has been doing interviews and in
addition to you know restating the fully
political nature of this case it's in
demented you know Hassan Madhuri who I
think has a show on Netflix did a
segment recently I haven't watched it
yet but it was you know shown to me
basically he going rightly to attack
bowls inaros plans to destroy the Amazon
which is a threat to every human being
on the planet that you know again he
just uncritically repeated that you know
Dilma was removed for financial Khurana
for financial you know serious financial
allegations even though that that even
at this point sort of even mainstream
media sort of admits that her
impeachment was completely baseless and
just repeating I mean if you read any
piece in The Washington Post the New
York Times The Guardian they'll say
Lula's at the BBC Lula is in jail for
corruption at the very least a fair
legitimate report would say disputed
charges orchestrated by a prosecutor
whom now serves as justice minister in
the current government he's been doing
interviews he's been actually
articulating very well the failure the
catastrophe of bowls in Iran was first
couple of months in office now there's
an investigation into balsan ro son
emerging about with actual real charges
with material evidence having to do with
potential money-laundering charges for
millions of dollars bill de blasio
rejected basically balsan ro coming to
New York City he's been in Texas where
he was greeted with protests and now in
just now I mean just a hugely I mean the
type of thing that not only is usually
significant but we need to learn from in
the age of Trump and the age of all of
these horrifying bills targeting woman
being placed you know passed in places
like Alabama
people have taken to the streets to
protest the balsan RO regime both snarl
governments war on education this is a
continuity of the austerity that started
as soon as Dilma was removed from office
but this is also specifically trying to
get rid of sociology and philosophy
departments so there's a huge
ideological component of this we have
video here Brian mayor of Brazil wire
and terrorists tell us or she'd
definitely be following Brazil wire and
Brian Merida understand all things that
are happening in Brazil look at this
mass amount of people on the streets in
Brazil incredible result and as of this
video he said I think was a two hundred
thousand now estimates are that there
were up to a million people striking to
defend education I'm gonna quote a
little bit from a piece on I on Latin
America by Fiona Edwards is also a good
journalist on this stuff based in the UK
the National Confederation of workers in
education described the day of Education
strikes as a quote unquote warm-up for
further mobilizations against this and
other aspects of bowls and arrows
austerity offensive that threatened to
impoverished the Brazilian people and
undermine Brazil's national economic and
social development
the next big anti austerity mobilization
is planned for June for a June 14th 2019
with workers preparing for a central
strike against bowls and arrows proposed
attacks on pensions which is currently
being debated in Congress both scenarios
project is to dismantle higher education
by starving universities of state
funding as a first step towards opening
the door for poll privatization of the
education sector now this is so crucial
because of course rightly we we put a
lot of attention here on his homophobia
his misogyny his racism which are
massive and and relentlessly documented
his literal neo-fascist background he
was a captain in the Brazilian military
Hunta that the term neo fashion fascism
was coined to
describe but these attempts to gut
pensions to destroy labor unions to
privatize public education these are the
reasons that The Wall Street Journal
endorsed a full-on fascist candidate for
the presidency of the largest country in
Latin America this is the ideological
impetus against the for the war against
the social movements in Brazil the war
against Lula and Dilma and the Workers
Party and the way the Western and Anglo
press has worked hand in glove with u.s.
foreign policy and US corporate
interests to put this catastrophe in
office remember Ian Bremmer
Ian Bremmer is one of these you know
again these horrific mediocrity Davos
soothsayers in the you know in the
Fried's Acharya Thomas Friedman moult
sort of and there was a great piece on
him in the Baffler I forget who wrote it
but it came out a couple weeks ago
everybody should read it and he runs a
political a risk consultancy called
Eurasia group and you know his job is to
advise banks and advise corporations and
then you know pontificate on CNN about
how sometimes somehow we can get back to
because all of his arguments always lead
back to well there's this huge rides in
right-wing populism and first of all
let's make a false equivalency let's do
what John Oliver did and you know I
don't know if he and blur MERS done this
but I would be shocked if he didn't you
know do something as a Ludacris is
comparing Trump and I'm low and let's
just get back to stability and stability
always somehow means opening countries
up for foreign direct investment
austerity and then a form of kind of
basic social moderation but of course
actual things you know are potentially
negotiable if you look at another figure
like this Tony Blair or Hillary Clinton
they're quite willing to negotiate on
refugee rights as an example so he wrote
a piece in Time magazine where he called
ball scenario was his nominee for Person
of the Year and in perfect perfect
symmetry he literally you he said he
called him he had toxic masculinity
which like if ever there was your signal
to maybe consider retiring
phrase it would be in Bremer deploying
it in the context of giving himself
plausible deniability because he knows
how disgusting ball scenario is and he
knows that things like bowls and arrows
saying he'd prefer to have a kid being
you know die than be gay and that
there's potential links between bowls
and arrows family and the gang that
assassinated Mariela Franco which I'm
sure Bremer doesn't even think about but
he said he also might be the person to
finally reform Brazil's economy and what
does that mean because when Michele
Tamara came to power after the totally
illegitimate process the judicial
Congressional coup that removed Dilma
Rousseff from office he immediately
started gutting the achievements that
Lula and the Workers Party and put in
place and what that meant was that
Brazil which had been taken off of the
human hunger list went back on it and as
Lula said last week he said look there's
a bunch of people in this country in
this country's elite want this country
to work for about 36 million people
which might be generous and he said the
rest are just a statistic they don't
matter to them doesn't matter if they
starve to death it doesn't matter if
their bodies are you know miss shape it
doesn't matter it doesn't matter that a
young person like Lula who grew up in
extreme poverty and worked his ways a
metalworker and lost a finger doing it
they don't care and Ian Bremmer doesn't
care you know the umbrella is there to
do kind of intellectual shell casing
around the ruthless march of
neoliberalism which is willing to
negotiate with fascists like balsan ro
Brendon what we can say oh just that Ian
Bremmer also just this morning said that
he would rather vote for Howard Schultz
for president than Bill DeBlasio well
really a hot streak yes I mean Ian
Bremmer is very bad not good the
Sheraton charlatan folks and not bright
and this is and so and Bill DeBlasio
look he's running for president that's a
joke the idea that you would you know
contribute a dollar to him and not to a
fund to fight to protect abortion in
southern states is obscene and you know
I don't know whether he's just
delusional
wants a vacation or whether there's
something more cynical about you know a
new way to ring out bucks from the real
estate industry in the last couple years
he's mayor and get some consulting
contracts going but credit where credit
is due
he told balsa narrow to basically that
he was you know garbage and not come to
NYC so bolson ro went to Texas and this
is where I want to do a trigger warning
this is gonna be one of the most
horrifying disgusting stomach-churning
pictures you will see ever that's right
Jerry bowls and ro its head cruise was I
think I mean that's Heidi Cruz I think
that's Jer bowl snarls wife but I'm not
sure she looks like Callista Gingrich
yes she does
sorry sorry if you're eating this is
evil folks does it get more evil than
this picture folks yes I Kappa thei
doesn't get more glamorous than this
actually it really does but again I want
to re-emphasize I mean this is the
depths of humanity but the heights of
humanity or that the Brazilians are out
there striking you know the landless
workers movement is still going Lula is
roasting this guy from prison
totally undaunted after being a
political prisoner for a year so we
should have solidarity and we should
learn and we should also as we measure
our choices for president be thinking
extremely attentively about our global
footprint and that's why I do
