[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday November 6 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
getting platformed Sean McElwee
contributor to the Nation magazine the
chief meme officer of data progress
we're gonna Bala Sh ice on Twitter
talking about the races to watch in
particular of the state houses that
Democrats may take also on the program
today thirty six million people vote
early and hopefully more will go to the
polls today meanwhile go vote and Trump
in a sign he may have had seen some bad
numbers tell Sinclair media yeah maybe I
could add it slightly different Joe
could have been a little nicer and I
think we all need to think about that
and just a reminder we won't spend any
time on it today but tomorrow well maybe
tomorrow afternoon Muller time starts oh
wow mmm there it is you mean turns out
Ivanka Trump genius businesswoman
particularly when it comes to the
Chinese I wonder what she's very
talented also on the program today Steve
King drops a parting shot of homophobia
hopefully on his way out and Amazon to
ruin two places at once
Dems poised to pick up maybe ten state
houses and you could thank Harry Reid
for the most diverse judiciary ever and
for Trump not having double the number
of judge appointments all this and more
on today's majority report ladies and
gentlemen it is a exciting day it is a
day that I think many people have been
thinking about to some degree or another
for about two years and we are here and
frankly you know I
we will talk about this as the show
progresses I think we all have a sense
of you know what we think is going to
happen but I'm not convinced that that
isn't too much a function of what we
hope are gonna happen sometimes that's
difficult to sort of separate and plus I
don't know if many of you were paying
much attention during the the 26th to
the 2016 election but some of us are a
little bit shy about about making
predictions gonna be no problem tonight
Democrats go sweep cross country all
vote bottles look great
we're gonna win it's gonna be super easy
so just uh you know vote if you can but
don't break your back about it big oh
that's there you got folks
yeah don't not like if it's a major
inconvenience don't do it cuz we got
this yes so there's that and but I'm not
I'm not convinced that everyone who's
listening to us is not already voted
what's really interesting to me is how
many of you are doing like poll watching
and go out and get out the vote we will
take calls we're gonna do a quick
interview and then we'll take calls in
the fun half and want to hear from
people who are voting I don't want to
hear from you no we're not going to talk
about any other issues today when hear
from you of your voting so Nora 2020 by
the way but say at the exact 2020 no one
have a debate about 2020 all that etc
etc and if you did info you can delete
this podcast from your phone right now
honestly well I don't want you watching
or listening if you're not it mean if
you're planning to vote or you're
walking to vote okay fine but I mean if
you're not go away for today come a
patron of tea NBS there you go yes go
give Michael so much go give me some
money and as I say it's really pretty
easy so especially if you live in a blue
state just relax The New Yorker is an
iconic
magazine that represents the best
writing in America today beyond
publishing the best writers in the world
New Yorker holds people in power
accountable through rigorous reporting
and compelling storytelling I mean think
about the stories that we have heard
that have just in terms of the me -
movement that have taken place this year
in the pages of The New Yorker
everything I learned about Charlie
kerger I learned from a mayor in The New
Yorker yeah Charlie I mean I tried Kirk
that amazing even on this show I had
that that amazing piece about the Tory
PR firm that works in South Africa that
was another incredible piece in The New
Yorker that was like more under the
radar obviously but they're just on
everything the piece about Harry Reid I
mean I sort of wear this but toomin
wrote a piece about Harry Reid's getting
rid of the filibuster very important if
the Democrats take back the house and
the Senate that people understand the
context and what the importance of
getting rid of the filibuster meant all
in the new yorker magazine they also
incorporate features like poetry fiction
cultural criticism and satire into every
issue this is where you get the best
writing anywhere everywhere with home
delivery of the print edition each week
or you can read on the go with The New
Yorker today app or of course via Google
News New Yorker is one of the you know
one of the ads look we screen out some
advertisers we won't take every
advertiser but there are very few where
I'm actually excited that they're
advertising on the show and the New
Yorker is one of those don't wait go to
The New Yorker dot-com slash majority it
is the best writing in the country
listeners of the majority report save 50
percent when they enter the code
majority so with this special offer
you'll receive 12 issues for just six
bucks plus you get the exclusive New
Yorker tote bag you can choose between
the print digital or combo subscription
subscribe to The New Yorker read
something that means something that's 12
issues for six dollars and a free tote
bag
when you go to New Yorker dot-com slash
majority we should keep this one in for
members today just so that they hear
that that deal
oh and folks check this out two Grove
collaborative it's changing the world
ninety four thousand trees are cut down
in the US every day to make toilet paper
and paper towels but seedling available
at Grove dot Co makes one hundred
percent tree free paper products from
bamboo and sugar cane Grove carries the
best natural products alright so I just
got a box from Grove had the toilet
paper great had the paper towels great
more than that why is that TMI uh no
reason
go ahead everybody does it they give
Grove carries the best natural products
they have innovative products like
seedling to refillable glass soap
dispensers and wool dryer balls that
last for a thousand loads it is your
one-stop shop for household pet personal
care supplies and a bunch of natural
brands you know and love so in this in
that cabinet right there people I've
told people I have a little smell issue
I don't know what that's from its new
and but they have the free and clear
soap dispenser I can't remember the name
of it is but I've got that deliver line
I got it's true they have all the
products that I like plus they have a
concentrate that we put into the bottles
and so we don't have to buy you know
crappy cleaner all of it it's great
every product is vetted to be the most
effective sustainable natural product
out there with auto shipments price
matching and a hundred percent happiness
guarantee life is easier and cheaper
with Grove look I am doing all I can to
avoid buying stuff on Amazon but there
are times where you want it delivered
and it's difficult to find all-natural
products cleaning products so far I'm
loving Grove I'm loving it it's
extremely convenient this stuff is heavy
I got a deal with all I got too many
logistics in my life
I like to purchase set and save and
that's it boom if you have an arbor a
tri grove you need to shop today before
this deal runs out for a limited time
listeners who sign up will get an
amazing 30 day supply of seedling that's
the tree vapor free paper towels
Michel toilet paper and tissues plus a
60 day free VIP membership and a
surprise bonus gift just for you when
you sign up and place an order of twenty
bucks or more check out Grove and our
special offer at Grove dot co / TMR for
the majority report that's grove dot co
/ TMR for the majority report a check it
out today
alright let's play this clip of Donald
Trump I don't know if I want to play
this one I want to play the the mood
thing the tune I mean look the Donald
Trump gets numbers that you and I do not
get and he gets them from Republicans
and they tend to I think you know
they're trying to manage his
expectations and they're trying to get
him out in front of hit things and look
they certainly thought that Donald Trump
was gonna lose in 2016 it wasn't there
was nobody coming to him at noon or the
night before the election saying like
you got this boss so I don't know make
of this what you will but here is Donald
Trump being interviewed by Sinclair
media this is his favorite non Fox
owner-operated
quasi network across the country and
he's asked if he regrets anything which
is now also just remember like this is
like literally the you remember do you
ever see the happy days where the Fonz
couldn't say that he was wrong
do you know what I'm talking about he
would say it's
so dumb no job right but it's good
school if you're ten you're ten that's
sort of funny when you're older you
start it's a little bit ridiculous okay
except for our president does that and
he doesn't do it with just like not
being able to pronounce words but he
does it in like he'll take two or three
words to do that talk to me about this
is something that I asked her
predecessor about during his term I
asked President Obama spas get the same
thing is there anything as you look back
in your first almost two years think you
regret that you wish on you then you
could just take back and redo well there
would be certain things I'm not sure I
want to reveal all of them but I would
say tone I would like to have a much
softer tone I feel to a certain extent I
have no choice but maybe I do and maybe
I could have been softer from that
standpoint but I want to get things done
we've had tremendous victories on trade
we've had tremendous victories on so
many different things on our military
you look at what we've done with
rebuilding the military but I would say
if there's anything I think tone would
be perhaps something I'm not sure that
if I did that maybe I'd be swamped okay
you know swamped meaning with the other
said because I wouldn't say that John's
been so nice either but that would be
something I would say that I'll be
working on but I'm swamped meeting with
the other side do it I mean because they
would take advantage of me I made a
mistake about tone but it's probably not
my fault you know it's probably wouldn't
be and even if I did it differently it
would be their fault because everybody's
unfair to me but perhaps I don't know
and I'm also gonna sort of awkwardly
tear in my body right now like like
you've mentioned ten-year-old he does
look like he's at some function that he
knows maybe a things today something I
did wrong it's a the amount of
conditional statements in there there
the proof is in the pudding what happens
tomorrow
I got flashbacks to grammar like you
underline the conditional statements
like I'm gonna see if we can go through
this just too quickly again once I know
I what I like though is I like how the
conditional statements conditional
statements this is something that I
asked her predecessor about during his
term I asked President Obama's always
get the same thing
so anything as you look back in your
first almost two years think you regret
that you wish on you then you could just
take back and redo well there would be
certain things I'm not sure I want to
reveal all of them but I would say tone
I would like to have a much softer tone
I feel to a certain extent I have no
choice but maybe I do and maybe I could
have been softer from that standpoint
but I want to get things done we've had
tremendous victories on trade we've had
tremendous victories on so many
different things what I would love to do
in the military you look at what we've
done with rebuilding the military but I
would say if there's perhaps something
I'm not sure that if I did that maybe
I'd be swamped meaning would the other
said because I wouldn't say that I would
say that I'll be working on well I
counted 12 yeah it's like when they ask
you in a job interview what your biggest
fault is and you're like perfection my
problem is I worked way too hard and I
just can't let it project go until it's
absolutely perfect so sometimes people
have a difficult time working with me
because I just won't sleep I won't stop
until everything is absolutely right not
enough me time I give too much I'm too
passionate about making America great
again the problem with me as I just
simply won't stop until everybody gets a
great deal oh boy folks won in
today's sponsors is news voice comm /
majority look you know that a lot of
people live in a bubble this is a great
thing to pass on to your your relatives
who are stuck with inside the Fox News
bubble because this is a way to
introduce them to other news sources but
to do it like with a soft landing
there's a media company that's come up
with their own response to this problem
of a piston illogical closure
it's called news voice yeah I mean it's
sort of an app for iOS or Android it
could may but not be perhaps you could
use it on another operator maybe a sense
you know
look you can get it you can access it
for free if you go to news voice dot-com
slash majority it gives you a
personalized news feed by aggregating a
mix of mainstream media sources
international sources and independent
media sources multiple sources are
provided for each news story this is the
way that I read the news folks you want
to get multiple angles on any given
story ideological angles and just
reportorial angles the entire app is
fueled by crowdsourcing you can upload
stories you think are important so more
people see them you can add stories to
the app but you can add a source that's
missing for a story it's meant to be a
completely open and democratized news
aggregator that lets you get every side
of every story they also have a video
interview series featuring guests from
like Chris Hedges to Alexandria Acacio
Cortez go download the app for free at
news voice dot-com slash majority if
you're listening on the podcast we've
put this address in the podcast
description notes and if you're watching
on YouTube below us on YouTube all right
we're gonna take a quick break when it
come back Shama Kelly
you
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report it is a pleasure to finally
finally provide a platform for our next
guest he is the co-founder of data
progress also contributed Nation
magazine Shaun miquellee Shaun welcome
to the program at long last thank you so
much for this platform Sam yeah welcome
now Shaun let let's start I mean I know
you you wrote a great piece about how
the the implications of the way down
ballot and I want to get there in a
moment but give me what you think is
going to be the top-line stories coming
out of after the election today sure I
think there is gonna be a couple first
off we're seeing more and more
candidates running on unabashedly
positions under massive arrest positions
like Medicare for all you know ending
citizens united we're seeing fewer and
fewer candidates who have a ratings from
the NRA the sort of anti choice Democrat
has basically disappeared and the idea
that you have to be anti choice to win
swing district which was always absurd
is gone and we actually just did an
analysis of the upshot polling that is
on the data progress blog where they
asked about single-payer and in every or
in a selection of their swing districts
they polled and what we found is that in
every swing district where they polled
single-payer support was positive so
these swing district voters support
these policies I think looking in
specific races there's going to be a
couple big takeaways first off you have
black candidates performing really well
across the country we have Gilliam and
Abrams who are running for for governor
and both of them I think are either
going to win or make those races much
closer than I think many people expect
them to be
we've got Antonio Delgado in New York we
have Lauren Underwood in Illinois we
have Colin Allred in Texas and these
candidates are all performing incredibly
well
in incredibly swinging districts and I
think that that points to the fact that
the Democratic Party has to do a better
job of creating pipelines for black
candidates and also needs to stop sort
of having this mold of a candidate that
is that excludes you know a football
player who is now a civil rights lawyer
we need to get rid of that model and we
need to sort of embrace you know
candidates who actually in win so I mean
we're seeing I mean just they're there
so there's two phenomena see here that
one is that or maybe they're on the same
continuum one is that the crop of
candidates running for democratic office
in 2018 is significantly to the left in
terms of their positions from their what
they were in 2012 let's say and then
you're suggesting that based upon what
the success that we're seeing already to
this point that they can go further
absolutely I mean there's this there's a
sort of mythology they're like oh you
know if you you're in these suburban
districts that went for Quentin you've
got to take moderate positions right in
California like we the way we win over
is we got a win over Celera moderates
I've ever seen did two of the candidates
were performing the best in California
Josh harder in Katey Porter of both
support single-payer looking at the
session seat in Texas which is a seat by
the way the Democrats didn't even
contest' in 2016 Collin Allred is
running on Medicare parole in that
district so we're seeing a lot of these
districts we were told progressives
could never run on their sort of values
and win are poised to make big big
victories and you know the sort of
medicare-for-all coin is still contested
by the center um but the center is
basically conceded at this point that
there's actually no evidence that we
have to run to the right on guns or
abortion and the reality is is that the
candidates are increasingly I'm sorry to
be like look if I don't support Medicare
for all
Republicans still bash me for supporting
medicare-for-all and the base gets mad
because I don't support Medicare for all
so I might as well support Medicare for
all and unsurprisingly the number of
candidates for Medicare for all has that
has increased dramatically
this cycle do you have a sense of I mean
do you do you have a any data as to how
many of the Democrats who are running
for Congress support Medicare for all
they don't see go ahead sorry the data
I've seen suggested in it it in swing
districts it's getting close to fifty
percent the the biggest problem that we
have because I've actually been doing a
project that involves trying to code
this going back a long time and it is
incredibly difficult to do because
candidates tend to be candidates so
depending on how you code
medicare-for-all and medicare buy-in and
things like that you get anywhere from
fifty percent some more of Democrats in
swing districts alright let me just
explain what that means did to people
who are not statistics people it's it's
defined well I mean it's just this is
you're on shaky ground let's put it that
way it's just some candidates are
slippery er than others as to what they
are supporting they'll come and they'll
say a Medicare for all type of situation
or something like that and it's it's
hard to pin them down but at least
within that area there's maybe there's
some ambiguity but at least fifty
percent are doing that and I would
imagine the rest are saying we need to
improve the Affordable Care Act in some
fashion yeah to be clear the difficulty
here is is that you know there's there's
the idea of a single-payer system right
in which everyone is sort of covered by
a single government plan and I think
that when Bernie Sanders talks about
money here for all that's what he has in
mind oh there's another version of this
which is like everyone has access to
Medicare through a buy-in so everyone
could buy into Medicare but you could
also get insurance
on a private market instance depending
on how you code that is like a hard
medicare-for-all or a soft
medicare-for-all you gets different
numbers an example this is like jean
ortiz jones in texas 23 is the whole
supporter of a single payer but you have
a some other candidates who are sort of
squishy and you have even more
candidates who says that they were
Medicare for all supporters in the
primary and then once they won were like
and what I mean by that is I infer
Medicare right right but it's
undoubtable that we are seeing
candidates who feel the need to make
rhetorical waves to the left and I think
that what the left's or deposit position
on this should be is like sort of broad
tent broadside broad tent as soon as
you're in Congress you need to
co-sponsor you need to co-sponsor the
Congressional Caucus medicare for all
bill in the house otherwise you know you
were you were not being honest with your
voters right okay so it's just a
question of like well this is what we
heard and this is what we're gonna hold
you to I like the idea of litmus tests
after people get elected that to me I
lied a bit and you know remember these
these folks they get a read they're
gonna run every two years all right well
so just just because we we you know this
is the parlor game of this day what do
you think it's gonna happen in terms of
the Senate before we go to the down down
by all that stuff I'm sure I think we
end up I think I think that we are
really well positioned to hold on to our
toughest seats and I think we are really
well positioned in Nevada Arizona and I
think that it is totally within the
realm of reason that either Tennessee or
Texas more likely I think at this point
Texas swings does the reason for that is
if you look at early vote in Texas
you had Latino turnout that was
equivalent to 2016 which is just unheard
of in a midterm election we don't say
that wait wait a sec when you say that
because I saw this reported Latino
turnout in the in the early early
numbers are equivalent to early numbers
in 16 not total yeah okay oh yeah so
there's a lot of bad things ahead with
early voting and I would strongly
encourage people to not look at the
percent changes number what you really
want to be looking at is share of the
electorate because percent changes can
be deceiving when you have something
like youth turnout that is you know 10
percent right so if you hit 20 percent
that's a 10 percent increase but it's a
you know a hundred percent right right
right right
thank you difference where is if you're
like you know old people move up ten
percent that and they already turnout at
a sixty percent rate you know the
percentage change is actually quite a
bit smaller despite these sort of
percentage point change being somewhat
but this is sort of overly complicated
for a podcast
what sort of long and short of it is the
number you really want to be looking at
is what share of the electorate does
each group make up compared to another
baseline and so when you have Latino
turnout of the early voting looking like
2016 that's pretty surprising because
normally at midterms we see a drop-off
on key Democratic groups so the only
question at this point in my mind is how
much better does that Oh perform with
with whites in Texas than Clinton did
and it is totally reasonable for me to
believe that he could perform better
than she did with whites so and and and
my understanding is that when we look at
the early voting in terms of youth
turnout we're seeing a similar dynamic
broadly speaking not just in Texas but
in Texas as well where they are almost
twice the the slice of the pie of early
voters which gives you an indication
that maybe they'll be that big of an
element in the electorate after the
entire election is over and that's
encouraging because you young people
tend to vote for Democrats more than
Republicans
yeah the and you've seen the Republican
Party respond to this by in states like
New Hampshire essentially implementing a
poll tax on college students and there's
been incredible efforts among
Republicans to suppress the votes but
you're sort of seeing finally the
Democratic Party begin to take seriously
the idea that its ability to win
elections is heavily dependent on
turnout among young people just because
of how much of the how many young people
those Democrats you know if you're
looking at you know sixty five-plus you
know you're seeing a narrow narrowly
positive R but if you're looking at
folks who are you know 18 to 34 you're
seeing plus twenty plus twenty-five
Democrat so you know increasing the
turnit among young people had just
massive potential gains the Democratic
Party particularly has you know thirty
five year olds are adults now and they
they're a huge part of the electorate
and and there's a type of people who
should be voting pretty consistently
alright let's talk about way down ballot
now we've got we've got we've got about
I don't know how many you tell me maybe
at least a half a dozen state houses
that could flip I mean I'm not talking
about the governorship we could be
picking up Democrats could be picking up
ten governorships
but in terms of legislators there's
there's quite a few that are in play and
even down below that there are a whole
host of there's the the energy seems to
have permeated the elections on all
levels in a way that I don't think we've
seen in the past yeah absolutely so
you're absolutely right about the
governorships the big problem is is that
you know we're on track to pick up about
eleven governorships
and possibly lose Alaska which you know
is an independent Democratic governor
boy
well that is less useful if you have a
situation like you have in North North
Carolina where the Republicans have such
a super majority in legislature because
they gerrymander the district so much
that they can just overturn the will of
Roy Cooper so so what we're seeing the
Democratic sort of base do is there is a
there's a concerted effort to make a
couple things happen first lift a bunch
of state legislators it's actually very
possible that Michigan goes from being a
Republican trifecta to a Democratic
trifecta in a single day that has almost
never happened but there is definitely a
possibility for huge pickups in the
state Senate and in Statehouse you're
seeing in Colorado in Minnesota which
should be blue states there are still
you know chambers that need to be
flipped and then you're also seeing some
plays like in Florida in North Carolina
where what Democrats are trying to do is
basically pick up enough seats that they
can flip the Chamber's in 2020 and be
really well poised for another round of
redistricting where they both have the
control the governor and also have
control of the requisite chambers to
ensure that they have
I can't square the show right so there
you can you can see oh oh Jesus
no I didn't realize we were going to say
that no I'm sorry
[Laughter]
enjoy your last time on the show buddy
you can't say well and just to remind
people to what happened to Cooper in
North Carolina
Cooper wins the election and essentially
this the the legislature says Oh
incidentally all the powers that the
governor has we just lated them away you
no longer have the ability to pick
committees to pick commissions you don't
have like basically we have just turned
you into a figurehead by taking away all
of your powers as governor particularly
in the context of stuff that may build
political power for the future what
other states are we looking at Virginia
in terms of what other states can we see
there's a chance where we able to have
complete domination of of the the the
state electoral apparatus which is huge
because we got the census coming up in
2020 right yeah well Virginia has their
elections last year but in New York
there is actually in this is rising to I
think a lot of your listeners many of
whom may live in New York um this is the
Democratic Party has never actually had
it's the same trifecta in the state of
New York by which I mean they've never
had an entire legislative session and
which Democrats controlled all three
branches of government on and they need
to flip one state Senate District to
make that happen and that is almost
certainly likely to happen and that mean
I actually have a pretty large fan on
that and that means that the Democratic
sort of Democrats will finally have the
chance to pass a single-payer health
care in New York to pass voting reform
in New York to bring you know
automatically register a shion's to stay
so so there are those sorts of blue
states where where sadly we are having
to continue to make progress there's
also been some bullishness in Wisconsin
um you know there's been Scott Walker
has been incredibly hard to unseat but
you know Democrats have a have a
candidate in Tony Evers who's one of the
few statewide
Democrats though strictly speaking runs
as a nonpartisan for the Superintendent
of Schools there and there's also a very
exciting LG candidate named Mandela
there who is very exciting for
progressives and has sort of been
definitely talked about as a sort of
future star of the party so that's the
other key thing we're seeing in state
legislatures is that as Democrats pick
up state Senate seats and governorships
they create a bench of politicians that
can make the sort of next generation of
senators House members governors and
things like that all right now I want to
ask you a question about that but I also
just want to remind you there is a
special election in Virginia
Carter Turner versus Joe McNamara and I
believe the house of the the the the
House of Delegates hangs in the balance
daddy daddy but there you go sorry
I mean less we're on the show I had to
do that let me ask you this but because
I mean I have a we have the leadership
of the Democratic Party is baby boomers
right and there is a real like void
essentially in terms of leadership and
exciting politicians of people of my age
who are in between however when we get
down to people of your age a little bit
older because you're quite young there
seems to be more there's there's more
energy there and in many respects like
we could be looking at the skipping of a
whole generation and moving to sort of a
I guess a millennial generation of
Democratic leaders did give me your
sense of that if that tracks with with
what what you know from your data yes so
there's actually a good political
science literature suggesting that
descriptive representation is very
important for voter turnout what that
means is that having people who look
like you who share important
characteristics of your political
identity and increasingly Asia is
something that is a meaningful
characteristic to someone's identity um
this was not true in the past but it is
now you can increasingly predict how
someone votes based on their age group
it's not the only predictor of course
but but it isn't set in characteristic
so what what is really positive this is
cycle for me is seeing candidates like
Abrams like thinking our like Gilliam
who are young think and it's like better
work so that young people sort of feel a
stake in the political system that they
have not had before they saw politics
almost
entirely as a spectacle of boomers you
know roasting each other in failing to
use social media and now all the sudden
they're candidates you know in deeply
description area penny it's like a Cosmo
Cortese who represents and look like
them and speak to the issues is the way
the basic issues and like our digital
natives so they know how to use social
media in a way that's not embarrassing
and I think that that is absolutely
something you're seeing here that you're
going to see a wave of much younger
candidates a much more diverse set of
candidates for the first time probably
ever there's a sort of majority of
Democrats who on the ballot are women
that's including all districts not just
swing districts so we're actually seeing
a sort of democratic class of candidates
that looks like and talks like and
shares the values of the Democratic base
when for the longest time you know under
2006 around the manual the strategy was
actually let's get instead of candidate
that doesn't represent the Democratic
base but sort of represents what Rahm
Emanuel thinks that can't state should
look like which is almost exclusively a
white male small business owner alright
lastly just Kara Eastman because this
race strikes me as as one where you know
to the extent that I mean and we
obviously don't know but to the extent
that that lessons are drawn from from
this election
there's you know the if there are two
sides to this argument about what should
candidates look like and what positions
should they take in reddish or purplish
districts the people are going to try
and use Kara Eastman in his example of
let's say why we couldn't take Omaha
when but just give me your your take on
that and there's a couple of those races
where there's a feeling that the
Democratic establishment did not want to
support
Keira Eastman let's say because they
didn't want that to be a hammer
I used against him in the future sure so
so we actually looked at the upshot data
so I'm shot
the New York Times upshot hold Nebraska
second District
I mean they found John bacon leading
with the but they they asked in that
poll do you support a single-payer
health care system and in the same poll
that has non bacon beating a majority of
likely voters also supported
single-payer health care so like there's
not a lot of evidence that it seriously
losses if she loves because of
single-payer health care because we know
from palling that that's actually what
the majority of people in that district
support um and and it's we also know
it's not true because we have candidates
like Katey Porter
Colin Allred Josh harder all running on
single-payer all strongly favored to win
their districts so I think that the
problem was trying to cherry-pick you
know these these districts is that in a
lot of cases that are actually other
factors going on in this case you know
there really was the party didn't invest
a lot behind Eastman I think partially
because they felt like she didn't
deserve to be the candidate even though
she you know won the primary fair and
square
and you also have some bacon being being
a sort of more popular than average
Republican incumbent possibly because he
hasn't had quite as many ads you know
run against him that would draw drag
down to savor Bowles but I think they
there were lots of explanations you can
have for black Harrison doesn't win if
in fact she doesn't you know I I would
say if there's a sort of flu wave
scenario there's entirely possible but
that district comes onto the map um but
if she does lose it would be weird to me
to immediately blame a policy position
she took that this sort of gold standard
of polling you know New York Times Siena
suggestions is popular in that district
right all right
good I mean I think that's important for
people to know because we're gonna see
that story right somebody's gonna write
that story and I hope I don't know who
the person is although I have a guess I
think I know who it is and that's why
people should go to the what the hell
app and blog where we'll be demolishing
these under mythologies wait where what
is it
the the what blog progress is running
the what the hell happened project which
is our sort of comprehensive coverage of
the midterms with data and polling and
analysis what the hell happened and and
what is the address on the W thh dot
data for progress org wow that really
rolls off the tongue why didn't you just
get WT HH calm well because then it was
well you can go to some uchh comm that
org and put it'll directly to that ok
well that's easy traffic so the donors
know you know in my alexa rankings that
we're doing good well I know but if you
forward it to that site it will you'll
get it the same way that's true no but
it does work WCC org does work I just I
feel like you're reading your listeners
are smart enough you know that day they
can hear the long route he leads these I
mean why would you put obstacles in
front of people look this is this is
part of the reason why even Saudi
platformed that and the filthy mouth
Shan Shan McAllen we really appreciate
your time today man
and folks will check that out w th h org
appreciate that appreciate it i should
explain to people that for a long time
after you know so I think I think it was
like he waded in to a Twitter argument
or one-sided discussion I was having
with Dave Rubin he was not he was not
responding to me and saying speaking of
D platformed you not having me on your
show is like being D flat formed and
then that just sort of like it grew over
time and then I was I was actually
hesitant to have him on the show at one
point because then one ruined the sort
of the joke that we had going you know
that I was the platforming him but you
know all all good well not really great
jokes I mean I guess the inside joke for
you yeah was this basically an inside
joke it was really it's more like it's
not even an inside joke it's sort of
like I don't know inside joke for
everybody who listens
I feel like an inside joke for me could
be the name of your entertainment memoir
that's right inside joke
not for publication but Sean Micheli
folks check out w th h org they do
really good work they're really really
smart stuff and the more that his stuff
gets out there the and in and gets the
attention that it deserves the more
candidates will will start looking at
that data and understand you know they
don't necessarily have to listen to the
be suited consultant who comes in with
the cookie cutter program from 1994
essentially to try and run for office
and so all right look we're going to do
this quick we're going to head into the
fun half we will take phone calls but I
want to take calls from folks who are
are either give me a
report from their polls maybe they're
doing voter protection if they're an
attorney or a paralegal etc etc okay so
try and do that yeah folks sorry IQ and
race yeah exactly
exactly hi there was a dispute several
months ago or you know it's gonna be
like as soon as the first person who
calls in Sam I just have a problem with
you and like okay well let you have a
half hour Sam I I have some concerns
about actually not I think Bernie will
win but the real life 20:24 focus some
scenarios were not outlining here at
7:30 p.m. tonight Eastern Standard Time
we will start our coverage there is
we're gonna have a sense at 7:30 we're
gonna have a sense of how the night's
going to go because we'll have I think
by 7:30 we're gonna have a sense of
what's going on with Joe Donnelly if Joe
Donnelly is going is about to win or has
won his Senate race II there's reason to
believe that the Democrats have all but
won the house at that point and then as
you go a little bit later there are some
other like that Dave brat race in
Virginia is a big one
there's one in Kentucky that'll also
give you a sense I mean these are are
these are like you know sort of the
suburban style races on the fun half can
we each pick the one person that we
would most like to see lose just in
terms of the strongest kiss em you know
I'm not gonna pick Cruz if that's what
you're saying I have another pick
besides Cruz okay it might be
interesting yeah who do we get the most
personal satisfaction out of see going
down oh well it's this is what wait
we're not doing it now in the
no no we're not doing it now I like
sensory Samsa I don't know about that
idea okay it's a good one but not now
so 7:30 tune in joining us tonight will
be I don't know a cavalcade of people so
stick around some will be in studio some
will be on the phone we will be drinking
and hopefully celebrating making up for
2016 if we're not celebrating I am not
staying right we should we should just
take walk away just walk walk away
according do it tomorrow
why glucan explain why there's gonna be
no future for Humanity on earth that's
right forget to do self-care that's
right folks
don't forget your self-care show with
Sam cedar in Michaels support this
program by going to join the majority
report dot-com join the majority report
dot-com it's not like a backslash thing
like apparently the data guy doesn't
realize is an obstacle to people going
there join the majority report comm for
pennies a day you can support this
program we give you extra content every
day in the form of the fun half and also
just copy cooperate or chocolate use the
coupon code majority get 10% off Michael
tonight is Tuesday preempted preempted
this is like M our coverage like Brian
Williams pre-empting you should do it
Brian Williams likely apologize tonight
Michael Brooks show is not plated
anarchy
just interrupt it in the middle
this reminds me of the time that
Benjamin and I were abducted in Romania
exactly always actually anytime you do
or Williams impression just has to have
multiple fake anecdotes right that's
show unusual physical courage and with
us tonight a real pleasure to have him
in the building he is one of the best
board operators that operate their
boards and we are happy he is operating
the board for us tonight
he usually operates the board 40 mb/s at
this time now operating the board for us
you as a board same operator fingers
different show Michael Brooks is here
but on a different microphone there you
are because we are indeed doing that is
the Williams the contract right to TM BS
live shows next week
this Sunday bill Fletcher jr. is joining
us and we might unlock it for us sort of
not only a post-election breakdown but
these sort of longer-term historical
trends that he talks about veteran black
Marxist labored unionized and political
theorists on the homepage of the website
buy tickets to February 1st for our
first live show at the Bell House with
boss Garson Cara
Ilona minkovski Trevor Beaulieu the
special guests we've sold about a third
of them and we've only had them up for a
week so get yours quick patreon.com
slash t MBS Jamie the ante fada yeah so
this week on the anti Fattah we have Jay
Firestone who wrote a pretty amazing
piece for kommune magazine about his
three months infiltrating the alt-right
in New York that lined up on my
Instapaper
yeah check it out it's it's amazing he
got into the daily stormer book club the
right stuffs pool party the New York
forum which is basically like the Nazi
version of the historical materialism
conference that we have on the left and
of course our friends the proud boys we
talked about what that experience was
like for him who are these people are
how the different groups interact with
one
another how they view Trump as well as
anti-fascist tactics why only the
far-left can effectively fight the right
and what leftists can and should be
doing to fight the Nazis right now I had
a joke back in my early days to stand up
about why hate groups were increasing
under Bill Clinton and I was like
talking about like well how does that
happen
like what like you're tired of one white
supremacy group because you want to join
another one because they have better
health better dental that's what that
reminded me particularly like the set up
yeah I really sold it and I didn't I
wasn't doing this thank you and I'm
doing another thing later thank you for
giving me the evening off I feel like I
shouldn't say what it is because Jamie
has decided to do chapo Trap House
tonight instead of no jury before it is
so sad well I'd say I'm just accept the
cocky I feel I feel bad I do I'm sure
she feels bad for cocking easy yeah but
I will be appearing in my official
capacity as the official Anti Fog
liaison to the Democratic Party so yeah
you understand that's really important
no definitely definitely sounds like a
whole lot of good comedy tonight from
all quarters Matt now I know that
tonight you're going on pod save America
you won't be with us but in the
wilderness yeah Tommy Vito yeah literary
hangover there's some patrons only
content this weekend and coming up this
week this Saturday is going to be hope
Leslie which is I'm I'm trying to make
it a it sort of got erased from the
Canon for sexist reasons but it I think
it's one of the greatest early novels in
America
so we're talking about that all right
folks six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty we'll be right back in a
minute
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty see you in the
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna de gray the white man alpha males
take our lovely mate
alpha males are back back
almost as males
I am a total can we bring back DJ's
anarchy song yeah or a couple you put
them in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough food will break
[Music]
Parkinson and the alpha males Oh psych
almost says what what
[Music]
the back
back
a lot of bang
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
black there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
birthday to medium oil I have a thought
experiment foil the alpha males
companies to pay the price replies to be
around here I am a total questions -
alright folks let's go quickly to the
phones calling from a 907 area code
who's this
hey I'm lawyer Matthew often husband
lawyer matthew calling from the 19th new
york congressional district you doing
voter protection buddy I am doing voter
protection doing the Lord's work what's
going on people are streaming in it's
been nasty and raining up here and the
the poll workers are like can't believe
how many people are coming in they're
over 650 votes about 10-15 minutes ago I
wasn't able to look up what the district
normally does but it feels like a lot
and they haven't gotten in the afternoon
rush for the post work rush and it's
been really nasty the rains just
starting to let up so they're like
overwhelmed but all good all smooth
feels like a democratic raft but we are
in Hudson right and in Columbia County
generally tends to tends to go for the
Democrat to a certain extent at least
around that area and I do know that
absentee ballots were huge up there
did you speak for our family we had
three in I I heard from the yeah this is
a this is Delgado's district did you get
a chance to meet him yeah I've met him
we had a fundraiser yeah I met him a
couple of others well there you go
anything else that guy yeah
anything else to report nothing right
now I wasn't able to listen live I'm
working you guys on later we will be on
starting at 7:30 p.m. tonight I'll be
driving home after the polls closed all
right hopefully clear victory all right
yes indeed
all right well listen to us on your way
back thanks for calling thanks
absolutely thanks for doing the work
longtime listener you later yeah
we've actually bathed together but that
was a long time ago I believe that yeah
all sorts of weird
white going on with this show I
know I know isn't Delgado married to a
Jew college just ask question come from
a 509 area code who's this where he come
from
Sam this is Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan
how are you sir
good I'm in a really deep red district
but I just want to encourage people to
reach out to their local in double-a-c-p
there may be some really good butter
intimidation opportunities out there for
you I'm standing by a drop-off location
we have vote-by-mail and in Washington
but you can just stand by these ballot
boxers with a couple of like really big
black guys and it helps like we've had a
lot of old people just drive right by
like they kind of slow down and they see
what's going down and then in some cases
like these ballot boxes if you know
someone with like a good like a like a
metal saw you know yeah you can cut that
 right open and just you know
straight up go through the the ballots
it's not actually not that hard so
you're always talking about like and I
know Jamie is big on this it's not
enough to just vote and that's
true like that's what I'm realizing more
and more and so get out there the the
Southern Poverty Law Center they also
have a lot of opportunities it's not
just saying double acp local Black
Panthers la raza they're doing all kinds
of good and I just want to thank
you for being a platform for all of
these you know radical left agendas well
I appreciate you I appreciate your
intimidating you're intimidating the
right kind of voter so thanks so much
I've got a real quick I've got a real
quick comment from yesterday when Trump
said you're the one who's violent but
your question is violence remember that
yeah
do you remember pee-wee Herman did you
ever watch pee-wee's big adventure of
course I know you are but what am I
I know you are but what am I so remember
when he said you're the puppet at the at
the right bait so peewee is like I guess
the joke is that he's like an
exaggerated infantilized adult sort of
thing and Trump is literally pee-wee
Herman it's true well that's exactly
what happened you are that's that's what
his whole thing this morning that we
played with him saying my tone like I
apologize my tone was bad but it was his
fault that's why I did it I mean I I
have those conversations with my kids
every day
milah stop hearing so I'm sure but he's
the one who hit me first
but I'm sorry I didn't mean to do it but
we're gonna have to do did hit who first
but I appreciate the call okay thanks
right come from a 2:03 area code who's
this we come from this is way from
Connecticut ray from Connecticut what's
going on how you doing I'm doing good
devoting I just got a question for you
they were talking about your numbers
last week just gotta give some love to
the herd saying we all here rocking
which you got the old black guy anger
and translate well on over here so we've
been tuning in to subscribe them there's
just one that you know shows off Sam has
old black guy anger I do yeah you do
that's right the day well he thought it
about the Supreme Court and you guys are
talking about some he just bad
so I remember that I actually wasn't in
that day because I was I was you know
really sick and somebody somebody sent
me a clip of it actually and what was
amazing was if someone was like
Kennedy's retiring and Jamie's like yeah
and you could listen to the anti-shah
dad I thought you were gonna jump for
the desk that was the most awkward it
was like the most awkward plug add Sam I
thought Sam was either gonna turn it to
the Hulk or die
I will admit that was not my best timed
moment Kennedy is retiring life is over
yeah and you can listen to the empty
bottle about why the Supreme Court is
 and he goes we're talking about
I was attempting to finish that was what
the middle-aged black Edgar came out
[Laughter]
quick question we're getting sidetracked
here I've been trying to get more
involved especially talking to my family
because like this super super super
religious religious so I was talking
about my dad like why wasn't it more
important in our community to you know
being more involved in politics and you
know just a quick story or whatever my
wife is white and he looks over his
shoulder and he said you know he says to
me he's like I had a white girlfriend
before and I'm like okay and he's like I
had to hide in the trunk because you
know he was a busboy and she was a
waitress and he said if I wanted to see
her at night I had to hide in the trunk
because if we were caught together I
literally would you know I was afraid
like I would I would get murdered right
and so when he was just you know trying
to you know just tell me like if I even
though he's come really far whatever he
looked at me he's like son this is what
it's always the light for where it's
always been like for you 72 years old
and he's like I've always had this
experience with America like it's never
been like
welcoming for me so my job he so it
wasn't important to be involved involved
in like politics but to show me how to
survive to make sure I had a trade I'm
no electrician right he wanted me to be
able to take care of myself and
everybody was calling yesterday they
made me think it's like yeah those are
some questions because there are some
people that I have like I didn't have a
comeback forward because there was such
a visceral answer he's like I hid in a
trunk when I wanted to hang out with my
girlfriend because I was afraid of you
but he um they from the South he was in
Florida and we moved up here to
Connecticut well you know when he wanted
to start over and get away from that
type of stuff and I was just wondering
do you guys have any type of like advice
for people that hard trying to talk to
that generation I do have a lot of
trauma attached to you know I would say
I would say that I mean you know it's a
hard argument it's a hard argument to
make right like I mean his experience of
the United States has been one where
where where politics don't matter that
much but I would say this to him is that
the reason why you don't have to you Rea
don't have to hide in a trunk is a
function of I mean largely the activism
of you know of people in your father's
generation but also to some extent
having politicians who who needed to
respond to it as opposed to needed to
not respond to it you know what I'm
saying right like if if if Donald Trump
is not going to respond to that the
Republican Party is not going to respond
to that they are a party who's who who
are all all in invested in the the it'd
of 95 percent white people that populate
their party and having it's not the
end-all be-all but having the right
people in office for the for that type
of progress is necessary and I would
just say like you know it's
it's it's a difference it's not it maybe
it's not a world-changing difference but
the idea that you don't have to hide in
that trunk now is in part a function of
politics now we're at the very least
electoral politics it's certainly a
function of politics
don't lose it Sam so that's a great
point I just you thank you love you guys
thanks you know just keep up the good
work because I had no idea about any of
this stuff I started following your
libertarian clips and I was like this is
and for all those libertarians that
course another what happening it's
all happening he was right thanks for I
appreciate it that's that's a very
strong contingent caller right here all
right let's go through all right so well
let's talk about who who is it that the
show ID and Freud who did you want to
lose Oh for me uh Duncan Hunter because
I was in hunter yeah because of the race
baiting campaign he's running against
Abu Nazir because I think Abu Nazir's
actually pretty progressive he's
Palestinian and Duncan Hunter's running
uh he's a terrorist race bait campaign
and I want him to lose I have me look
everybody hates Ted Cruz of course you
want Ted Cruz right obviously and Brian
Kemp and right antis I mean they have
these are the worst people on earth Noam
Chomsky just today so the Republican
Party is the most dangerous organization
in the history of the planet and that's
not hyperbole he's been saying yeah and
he's right because he's filled with fear
unfortunately yes yeah he's very yeah I
expected more fruity daddy Chomsky who
do you do you have any particular people
you want to lose who's that guy who like
flipped out when they questioned him on
being a white supremacist Steve King yes
guy I'm afraid I have not been following
the midterms as closely as some of you
but that one really stood out to me
Matt mine
he's not really is out there in terms of
like the racial appeals it's still more
coded but Jeff Johnson who's challenging
for governor in Minnesota huh I'm
terrified of Minnesota going red
I don't the polls have shown walls up by
eight or six lately so I'm I'm fairly
confident in this one I'll be I like to
have my shot inferred meaning more or
less assured so I'm pretty sure I'm
gonna be able to enjoy it tonight if he
loses its gonna Jeff Johnson wins
tonight I'm I'm gonna be that's a very
sad boy Brendon is itching he's got
somebody big he wants I think everyone's
points have been good but I would I
think a sleeper that we would appreciate
afterward the fact would be Scott Walker
that's a good one
you took mine I mean I have on my list
camp
Kobach Cruz King but Walker I just could
I have yet all the KKK s but Walker is
if I feel like he's a piece of garbage I
I want that guy definitely is not a
zero-sum game with that yeah if that guy
ever somehow gets to be President
Shawn and I are just moving to Mexico
because his Union will be over I thought
you guys worst in that which I thought
would get us in trouble but I'm learning
no I thought you were gonna like yes but
yes I agree if my auntie fought crimes
for my own show there you go folks
we talked about Barrow Rourke on the
show I mean the the Senate I'm gonna say
this now I think there's a I think there
is a decent chance an underestimated
chance maybe because it wouldn't have
relevance from a political state but
that we end up with a 50/50 Senate and
Mike Pence ends up breaking a bunch of
ties for for for all sorts of things
coming out of the Senate but if we don't
if the Democrats end up taking the
Senate it's going to be because bado
Rourke wins
now I'm quite convinced of that it's
possible that that wind could come from
Tennessee with Britain Britain but I I
think it's more likely that if the
Democrats end up taking the Senate
they're gonna lose Heitkamp seat but
they're gonna pick up Arizona they're
gonna pick up Nevada and they're gonna
win in Texas and here is a woman who who
was interviewed after voting for Beto to
a Rourke in El Paso Texas and she seems
to be heavily invested for since
everything that Ahnold Trump is it tell
me what it means to you to see Beto is
sort of a favorite son around here I
mean we're in his neighborhood a few
blocks away out here representing El
Paso representing you hoping to
represent the whole state what is it
meant for you to see that what he's been
saying and what he's been doing on the
national stage well I give him a lot of
credit for for standing up and saying
what he thinks and for being willing to
represent so many people who have our
like-minded it means a lot we're just so
proud so proud I feel like if you see
him win this race tonight
everything it's just everything we want
him to win and we'll be watching the TV
tonight with him you'll be some place in
the city but it'll be just so much it'll
mean that by gosh we all have a still
have a chance to have a decent country
and the decent values with decent
relationships with other people thank
you so much Pamela I really appreciate
it thank you how I can't wait for the
conservative media to be making fun of
that old lady she sounds triggered right
what a snowflake but there it is I mean
there's a lot of Chinese Yasim down
there and the thing to watch again is
that figure what percentage of the
electorate in Texas this is also true
like in places like Florida and Georgia
what percent of the electorate is the
youth vote what percent is the Latino
vote if those numbers go up if they
represent a greater share of the entire
electorate in those states then good
things will happen from a democratic
perspective they have a ton of voter
suppression down there though in Texas
they have in Florida it's certainly in
Georgia
yes like I would love to be wrong about
this but Texas is a horror place I feel
like it's gonna be a squeaker for Cruz
but I hope that I'm wrong cuz Cruz is
terrible
yeah I think you know statistically
speaking it appears that Beto is down
like five or six percentage points but
it's a it's tough to know I mean it's
tough to know what the electorate is
gonna look like and if you know if the
youth share is double that it normally
is the share and the Latino share is you
know near double or 35% more than it
normally is it's very hard
imagine that the pollsters predicted
that because you need to predict that
what the makeup of of the electorate
will be to get a genuine assessment as
to who's gonna win it's also just
instant even if Beto doesn't win just to
notice like even in red states quote
unquote a huge part of the population
are just like that woman and they've
been waiting for somebody to come and
articulate like a view of politics that
they might actually be excited about and
it's I know that's what's I think to me
affecting about that clip this is really
unfortunate you really hate the idea
that people can't go out and buy a
twenty five dollar sandwich in downtown
Manhattan somewhere but this clip
apparently two women where were denied
service handed on I didn't I gave it to
Brendan hold on one second
denied service at a restaurant because
of their attire now this type of
discrimination has been going on for too
long in this country far too long it is
horrific to see this kind of blatant
discrimination this is like what I would
imagine like the APA in the nineteen
twenty three in the 50s yes these two
women were apparently denied service
here we go Carmen's in New York City
wearing my make America great again
shirt and hat we originally walked
inside and asked for a table for two and
he said that the wait was two hours
because of our hats then when we walked
in from the video
he completely avoided us but he had a
table prior to for just a random in
comer so though we got turned down as to
Jewish went to Jewish women just down of
a restaurant in New York so redraw that
you're welcome
yep out I'm not sure what there
without godly dreidels for you here oh
they look so Jewish - no Connolly
dreidels we don't got any bar mitzvah
performances
TJ call it for you out what they're
they're trying to leverage the shooting
in Pittsburgh - getting served at
Carmine's wearing make America great
again something basically look this
happens all the time at restaurants
people who are you know unsightly are
giving bad tables so that the rest of
the restaurateur doesn't you know put
them in the window so that it doesn't
drive people who couldn't walk in there
just like shirtless no like I mean
there's just certain basic decorum you
have to follow it of what are seated at
most restaurants of course and it's
surprising it's also it's rude to wear
your hat inside yes
very rude I mean it's also I will take
up a collection for whatever server
denied them because I feel like we need
to encourage these small acts of
goodness in the world
I go to Carmine's in a Bernie Sanders
hat I get in like right away oh you
should come out and do a video I got
served in five minutes I got served
not a word off Carmine's were one of us
is Jewish and I'm just gonna go in like
full black bloc attire and see what
happens that that maitre d for president
2020 yeah so like that's great so think
of those two and go vote oh give them a
bad day this is you know chuck grassley
gets still like I just do any credit
that he's given to any of these
Republicans Chuck Grassley has been
given like some type of I don't know
some credit for being you know in some
way a balanced Republican right I mean
and aside from the fact that he lied his
way through the Cavanaugh hearing and
then apparently but I said sexual
assault was bad which prove my
bipartisan bona fides and and for
anybody who says that like look they're
not all racists the Republicans are not
all racists and and you know who you are
that are listening to me who say that to
me occasionally and like I'm being full
of hyperbole the bottom line is if you
are willing to ignore someone's blatant
racism and vote for them or endorse them
then guess what you're racist that's
that is I mean that couldn't be more
unfair I disagree with Steve King and a
wyeth know state but I support him for
giving tax breaks to Monsanto and I'm
just tired of all the divisive this in
the Quetta section they don't need you
to say that because here's Chuck
Grassley saying that Iowa needs Steve
King in Congress
I also need Steve King in Congress I
feel like I do a good job of
representing Iowans and so often I have
found Steve King to be such an ally an
ally that I need in the other body
called the house representatives he's
worked with so many things that are
important to Iowa agricultural issues
the farm bill alternative energy things
that are very important to Iowa like
wind energy particularly positive let me
just alternative energies probably
ethanol right it is a getting definitely
corn subsidies up children of color an
ethanol and biodiesel as well without
his help in the house representatives
Iowa would not be the number one ethanol
state in the nation and Steve Kings
district is stronger in ethanol than any
other congressional district in the
entire country but also I don't want you
to forget that he's very pro-life he's
much for a strong military but for those
things that are very important to Iowa
for the working people of Iowa like he
was for the the tax cut or he promoted a
small business tax cut the first time
the small business had any recognition
in the tax code
and all of these things are important to
Iowans and Iowans need him because his
first concern is representing Iowans yes
well first off it's clear it's clear
that this is like Grassley's last words
I mean it's not it seems like he's on
his deathbed when he's doing this and
also he's held hostage can we get the
just the front part of that again
because I really enjoyed the countdown
that they gave them so ready aunt when I
get to three you just start endorsing a
white supremacist okay here we go and
just because he's you know you don't
have to agree on everything we worked
for ethanol together and then I say hey
Steve what are you gonna do when he goes
I'm gonna go burn across in front of a
black family so him I go okay I'm gonna
go read the paper he specifically
doesn't mean that you're with him on
every part of the time and I'm goddamn
tired of it he specifically didn't
mention anything to do with the border
which you know Iowa doesn't share a
border with Mexico but that doesn't stop
Republicans from North Dakota and
Montana from talking about I'm worried
about biofuels nobody's always trying to
distract from the fact that Steve King
has a Holocaust replica in his living
room I've got to work on the issue the
people of Iowa that's right he's the
only one from the Iowa delegation who be
willing to go to Auschwitz I understand
he goes to Auschwitz and he considers it
a vacation and a relaxation spot the
other way people would do Club it but
that's not my problem my concern is
ethanol I'm tired of liberal media looks
like he's due for a fresh infusion of
poor people blood
that Peter deal on the line uh whatever
here is wolf do what you feel because
here is Donald Trump with his chief
domestic adviser in the country at his
final closing rally asking the American
people to vote for his white nationalist
ethnically pure platform so we were in
Tennessee last night and Lee was there
and I get that but this was a surprise
tonight but you know that's all Lee
Greenwood right that's what he's talking
about Lee Greenwood was there proud to
be an American is that the song that he
sings her I put a boot in your ass
that's Toby Keith okay I will hear he
would continue that song is one of the
great songs but when he's singing to you
it's like direct we really like that
song right we really are we likely
Greenwood and he's been with us from the
beginning he's been with us absolutely
from the beginning and while we're
talking about incredible people let's
get it over with right so I have a few
people that are missing right out here
and they're very special they've done an
incredible job for us they've been with
us from the beginning also I'm gonna
start by saying Sean Hannity come on up
Sean Hannity
[Applause]
by the way all those people in the back
are fake news
[Applause]
we purchase them
mr. president I I did an opening
monologue today and I had no idea you
were gonna invite me up here and the one
thing that is made and defined your
presidency more than anything else posit
now I just want you to know like he's
saying like I did an open monologue I am
a completely I am a journalist with
incredible integrity and sort of
ignoring the fact that he is basically a
spokesperson for Donald Trump so he's
he's saying it as if it's like a
coincidence I complimented you today
promises made promises kept four and a
half million new American jobs puzzle
less than Obama created in his first 18
months or his last 18 months of his
presidency
Rockman anger Sam I like it good four
and a half million new American jobs 4.3
million Americans off food stamps four
million Americans out of poverty and
we're not dropping cash loads of cargo
planes of cash to Iranian mullahs that
chant death to America mr. president
well that's it you know that posit I you
can't argue with that we were of course
dropping all that money that was what a
sudden be better for that guys I just
want to make sure it drops in a way
that's convenient to be fair the
technology involved in the
voice-activated levers that would drop
the money from the C 30s that was pretty
cool they could just cheer into the the
headset and it would just open up the
the levers in the the cargo base a lot
of people bitched and whined about why
didn't endorse a I'll say quick I near
any commitment about dropping money on
mullahs helping them burn flags she can
run around talking about DSA this and
that enough with the radical posing
where's the support for death to America
let's come up and we're not dropping
cash flow to cargo planes of cash to
Iranian mullahs that chant death to
America mr. president
thank you
[Applause]
and we don't mean at all to insult look
at the size of the media effective
that's a lot of people you know I yeah I
don't we didn't we didn't take more of
that but I wonder if his first reaction
to that right he doesn't come up like I
mean Hannity said all this stuff and
it's as if that is stuck in his head
when Hannity said the very first thing
Trump didn't let go and he first came up
and he basically in Trump in the to the
extent that Trump can he apologized the
media that to me also indicates that
maybe he thinks he's in for a beating
today and when Donald Trump is not the
only person who had a somewhat anxious
disingenuous response to the Fox News
has released a statement
apparently Jean Pierrot was also up
there campaigning with Trump Fox News
does not condone any talent
participating in campaign events we have
an extraordinary team of journalists
helming our coverage tonight and we're
extremely proud of their work that was
an unfortunate distraction has been
addressed
you know what Trump thought when Hannity
said the thing about the fake news was
you know spelling that out sounds
somewhat invidious and we don't really
have time to clean up the mess that is
quite the bull that is way too full but
there were some actual Fox News cameras
in the back there to when he was
throwing shade so I would imagine all
right we're gonna grace they don't
listen I got there's 34 callers on the
line I don't know if we're gonna get to
all of them but we're gonna go quick
unless you have some type of
get-rich-quick scheme or something like
that we're gonna go quick starting with
a 6-3 owe area code who's this where you
come from
hi my name is Joe I'm in Jefferson
County Missouri Joe and exurbs stop
tangler and what's going on Joe can you
yep hey I was just going to talk about
the pool so the polling station I was at
was really busy the thing I noticed that
I thought was interesting was on the
ballot
probably seven or eight judges that had
no Democratic contest so I think that's
just attributable to how you know kind
of unlikable senator McCaskill has been
obviously I voted for I'm not pulling
like a jimmy dore here but i do think
that when if we do not win the senate i
i'm optimistic about Beto and Arizona I
do think that there's a really good
chance that we may not win Missouri and
I think the fact that we have so many
open non-contested judges you know how
hard is it to put a democratic judge up
for part of this election I think her
inability to kind of lead the party here
in the state which is it's not her job
obviously she's a senator a federal
senator but I do think it says a lot
when you compare it to someone like
Gilliam you're fedo who's helping all
these down ballot people I think that's
the race that I'm not optimistic about
even though I voted here all right well
I appreciate the update Joe and it's a
very good point thanks for calling in
called from an eight four seven area
code who's this where you calling from
gotta be quick Sam cedar Josh from
Chicago Josh from Chicago what's on your
mind but um well I guess I just wanted
to talk about Missouri for a second yeah
basically I think what's going on right
now when I lived in Missouri it was
actually a somewhat blue or purple state
because you had a Democratic governor
and jay Nixon and you had Claire
McCaskill there and you had it was
basically a toss-up state especially in
2008 and that shifted after Ferguson in
2014
Nixon they were not able to get
Democratic governor there and I think
what we've seen with McCaskill is that
she's basically instead of going back to
her base which what made Missouri
somewhat swing state was that there was
enough black vote out there there were
there's enough black voters in st. Louis
in Kansas City that care to potentially
make it into a swing state and give give
Democratic senator or a demurrer
governor of course after the way Nixon
hat handled Ferguson is sort of suppress
some of that vote she's basically
ignored the black vote completely and
instead focused on trying to win over
conservative voters with anti-immigrant
rhetoric things like saying she's
supporting the migrant caravan ban and
basically I hope she gets reelected if I
were still living in Missouri which I
would have voted for her but I think
even if she does or even she doesn't the
Democratic Party there has to find
someone who's more competent at least
campaigning to replace her yeah by
primary or something because like Josh
yeah let me let me let me drop you
because I think the points been made we
just got two calls in a row about
Missouri and you guys echo no no it's
great because it really it you added to
that callers call he just basically said
the same thing that Claire McCaskill not
good politician and and leaving a stuff
on the table appreciate the call Josh
come from a 731 area code I'm going to
be quick with you your name is and
you're calling from
okay I'm ed from Tennessee I'm gonna be
quick Sam hey this is what kills me I've
called Bernie Sanders different places
the DNC 1960 corporate taxes were 4% of
GDP
today it's 2% of GDP health care was
around five percent of GDP today at
seventeen point four percent of GDP I
just looked it up on Forbes we spent
three point eight trillion dollars a
year but this is the kicker and I've
been trying to tell every Democrat that
would listen and none of them use this
info 33 cents of every dollar is wasted
in our health care line that talked
about from the Democrats
we need Medicare for all well here he it
Edie I agree with you and the good news
is and I appreciate the call
according to our guest today on the
program about 50% of Democrats running
for office were running on Medicare for
all called from four seven eight area
code who's this where he called from
gotta be quick
services Jeff George how you doing I'm
doing well Jeff what's happening is
Stacey Abrams gonna win babe energy yeah
just yeah just to give you updates stay
safe it's gonna wait I'll be David
Aceveda I don't know
III really don't feel the energy here is
real I'll talk better with their
Coldplay sauce volunteers a lot of Stacy
sides I saw the gentleman at the door
passing out free chakras every voter of
course they've acquired by state law
that was nice but but but I did
seriously I saw a lot of stance to
april's people out gave me those thumbs
up honking my horn right leg did see no
can't people not even down here in
small-town Georgia which is an excellent
sign I keep telling people the more
people who vote the worse it is for them
they are afraid of people voted who
don't normally vote right the more
people who vote the better it's gonna be
for us but get your ass out there before
damn fire governor named stay same same
I won't talk to you tonight from Georgia
dissident peasant thanks so much come
from a 4:04 area code who's this where
you calling from gotta be quick hey fam
its Josh in Atlanta Josh in Atlanta
what's on your mind Josh we're really
gonna calling with an anecdote yes yes
now we are for the first time I've
actually been able to vote for a
Democrat in every single position so
before it would be like did get Democrat
the national level but you wouldn't have
anyone for all the local stuff you've
had like a Republican and they
libertarian but now and my mom said the
same thing she's actually in a more
conservative district and I'm in and she
said for the first time in years there's
a Democrat running in every single seat
and that's what that's a good that's
interesting that's super interesting
appreciate the call and this is the
sixth district also floods and we're
we're loosening that is so yeah just for
context all right but it's interesting
that's great and and again when you have
that many people down ballot
it may not be huge
but you're bringing more people to the
polls I mean it's just like it's the
same theory with the open mic night
right everybody's got to bring ten
guests when those two the open mic night
that's what you got to do told y'all
Asif to stop trying to be me double
column from me six four seven area code
who's this where you come from is this
made yeah it is you Wow yes alright
Canada Sebastian what's on your mind
well you know I can't vote yes awesome
in the military so I can't really
advocate any actual policies I'm not
allowed to do that
all right so I'm double hamstrung here
it's really frustrating knowing how many
people are not going to participate in
the US there's one thing everybody
outside the US wants it's a vote in
American elections I don't and yeah it
just it's just really frustrating to
think that you know oh my god speaking
of Justin Trudeau and in a prime
minister named Justin Trudeau rather
that guy he's maybe had a buddy from
Canada with Holland who really did not
like Justin Trudeau yeah there's a
little Prime Minister by the name of
Justin Trudeau we all great coverage of
but meanwhile he's ripping apart her
system up here gone from a six for six
area code who is this where you come
from gotta be quick this is train boy
from New York City I just saw they give
you a report them I've heard it first
thing this morning the all the people
there said they had who are shocked at
how busy it was I live in a really
liberal district so take it out what you
may I will say that after Andrew Cuomo's
new a pathetic suck
- Jeff Jesus yesterday and cut and Howie
Hawkins campaigning with Jimmy draw I
voted for a governor for the candidate
with the green new deal that would be
Newsom I hope you bring here angry black
day and energy to Albany - I think I'm
gonna write in Rosa Luxemburg or
something like that
can you write in on a party ticket a
party line you can you can always write
well I'm on a party line I don't know
about that yeah I mean that's the only
thing is I want the Working Families
Party to get their 50,000 I'm gonna keep
it real I voted thorough for Howie
I said I told the lady in front of me I
said I'm not voting on a fear
and she went what called from a two one
five area code who's this where he
called from gotta be quick hi Sam it's
Mindy I'll be really quick Mindy hi I
was number five hundred at eight o'clock
today eight o'clock this morning
Wow which was huge and the parking lot
was only halfway filled I went back at
10:30 just to drive by because I had to
go out and do some errands actually I
had to get pins from a voodoo doll for
my trunk doo doo doll tonight you are so
awesome
[Laughter]
you should come by to Bushwick next time
we put a hex on Brett Kavanaugh
oh you should cover the flat wait you
what I have I have to be quick Jay I
have to be quick so I have two really
quick things of value Jays wife staying
at my house till Thursday Jay from
Connecticut right
you know she's my best friend right yes
I did know that sweet out this train
schedule later okay so she's staying
here at but we got voodoo dolls and
we're having a Twitter voodoo doll party
tonight where we are Cleve made goo doo
dolls and we're going to every
time we flip the seat we're going to
poke it I'm not sure that's the way it
works actually you want to go the
opposite way you poke at first and then
they lose the seat all right continually
to be on the safe side I'll school
myself on that before the party but and
then the second thing was when I went to
the post today the lady you know my
neighbor behind me is running right by
the way who only has five signs up in my
neighborhood and there's 150 houses so
one of the women was there said don't
forget to mentor Wendy Thomas I said
she's my neighbor and I won't vote for
her and the lady said to me Yas Queen
[Laughter]
what did you say yes my husband said
this is exactly why I went with you to
the polls so you didn't start a fight
and get arrested as president and she
you know if auntie Fah I think you are
really what we need right now so thank
you please join I'll do it well contact
you last thing I'd like David Brad to
lose - Abigail Stan burger and I like
Chris Chris Kovac to lose also tonight
yep all right thanks I feel I will talk
to you tonight have a good night love
you we'll listen to you at 7:30
Michelle's gonna be here and you're
gonna be on our youtube big screen oh
great okay nice I appreciate it hi yeah
call from a three one three area code
who's this where you come from gotta be
quick Raymond Raymond we're on them yep
Raymond I love the show I just want to
say something real quick I am a
physician in Michigan it's really hard
for me to see these patients repeatedly
come in and they're struggling and like
I especially when I'm like are monos
well it doesn't matter but the point is
they come in and they're having a lot of
trouble and they have a lot of a lot of
conditions that require health care and
they don't have health care and yet they
tell me they hood for Trump and it
breaks my heart and I don't understand
it and so I you know how this allows you
to thrive
in the event actions of those who could
have active and different those who
could have done better the Silence of
the voice of Justice that mattered the
most and made it possible for triumph
for evil to triumph and you guys just
please go on and vote today in Michigan
please
prop two well we know we have a big
problem Michigan for gerrymandering prop
to make sure you vote Yes on Prop 2 and
I don't know how I feel about marijuana
but if you are a recreational use of
marijuana for what well uh yes on top
one and with that being said I think you
guys a little bit too hard on some of
the Trump voters who have turned over
this this time around and I think you
owe us as a Trump voter if you have come
to our side and they decided you should
be reasonable please please please
please take one more person with you two
more people with you because you owe
this country for the mistakes that you
made in the last election well that's
all I really have to say I appreciate
the call room in Michigan could go big I
think with Mayer that's a huge race
could Senate the the state assembly the
Senate and the the governorship could go
as well as that redistricting and and
then of course the marijuana calm from a
nine eight nine area code who's this
where he come from hey Sam this is JJ
callin from Washington DC how you doing
good what's on your mind JJ hey just
wanted to get people out to vote in
Washington DC I don't know if you know
but there was an initiative 77 that
would raise the minimum wage to $15 but
by 2020 the people of DC voted in favor
of that resoundingly in June and then
the DC Council just earlier in October
voted to overturn the people's decision
so we really need to get out there were
eight people who voted to turn this down
as well as the mayor mayor Bowser signed
this and basically said that the people
of DC's decision doesn't matter doesn't
count that our democracy is null and
void so just really want to get people
out and I wanted to say real quickly to
that I've been listening since early
this summer and just became a member
last week you guys have a great program
I really appreciate what you do Thank
You JJ appreciate the call thank you
and of course DC has so little
representation as it is
just unbelievable they would overturn
that that referendum come from a 5-0 for
area code who's this where you calling
from
hey this is Robert in New Orleans and
obviously what I gotta say so that way
I'll just get off the phone um I never
get a chance to call or anything like
that so this is going back to someone
like a couple weeks ago but it's a Jamie
Jamie I love you his best but I'm a
bi-racial guy my dad's black my mom's
light my parents have been divorced my
mom is she's wealthy and she's total
like Trump pseudo fascist racist and I
don't know what to do about that because
obviously what I'm getting at is there's
more than economics the the way that
these people act so it's not just an
economic thing I don't know if it's just
tribalism in that in our it's class
people were classless so they go to
racism I don't know but it's definitely
not economics I still love you I'm that
guy that tweeted that you that I was a
cop and had a bad weed trip and I came
back and I quit being a cop because I
had a vision quest so thank you for your
life in my tweet or whatever you're the
best we have a TSA watch party tonight
in New Orleans it is at 12-mile limit
for any other New Orleans listeners
thanks a lot you guys have a great day
thank you by the way for the love I
agree with you on the level of what's in
the psychology of these individual
voters and people when I talk about
economics I'm talking about some next
order causes not within the individual
psychology but like the whole the whole
shebang so when I say economic forces
helped to bring us Trump I'm speaking in
the macro sense and I'm also talking
about the collapse of the Democratic
Party as well I'm saying the nature of a
pig is to be swine that's what up slam
let's go to the phones con from a six
five one area code who's this where you
come from okay yeah yeah I just want to
say that I went and voted this morning
and I have to say
I was appalled up from Minnesota um
first off voter registration you can do
it right there
what's your ballot what's your name what
there my name is John okay hold on
before yeah yeah as appalled by I saw
you're able to register there which is
great paper belt which is great but
there's no one guarding the sticker I
could have just grabbed a sticker walked
out there said I voted and didn't have
to vote what's up with that
that is ridiculous and that is what I
mean we need to have we need to
basically it's about a fraud George
Soros yeah the Democrats and they don't
want you to say what you feel and maybe
that's not politically correct but it's
a but it's theft in a certain sense
maybe perhaps appreciate the the call
John but this is pretty funny let's hope
that Ted Cruz is is no longer with us
as a senator and maybe I don't want to
be conditional but somebody tweeted this
out this I guess this woman right Matt
said under a Ted Cruz he told me the
only thing he wants more to win the
election is to go to the bathroom and
then there's another tweet that's weird
so exciting to me Ted Cruz from this guy
he said the only thing he wants more to
when the election is to go to the
bathroom and then here's another tweet
from this time from a different woman
Ted Cruz must really have to go to the
bathroom he whispered to me that he
wants to do almost as much as he wants
to win the election awesome what the eff
is going on with this dude that's his
what there's another one from another
guys it's a guy or a woman which one is
it uh it does look like a woman yeah Ted
Cruz will save our nation right after he
goes to the bathroom he told me to tell
you that awesome
what that must be his go-to that's my go
to a small talk just normal human
pooping that's what I'm doing
today I'm a human being I have to go to
the bathroom I'm not any normal human
mortal I am totally impromptu talk about
needing to use the bathroom with
strangers or is it just that he's like
so nervous about being stuck with a
conversation with the horrible human
beings who would vote for him that's
what I thought it's a perfect out - like
oh I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna do you
the honor of taking a picture with you
even though I have to go the bathroom
immediately after we can't carry on any
kind of conversation right I just want
you to know that even if I go to the
next people over and shake their hands
and leave you I you got to feel bad for
me because I really got to go to the
bathroom
Wow Ted Cruz ladies and gentlemen Ted
Cruz I hope after tonight we never have
to say his name again let's go to a 505
area code who's this where you calling
from gotta be quick I gotta go to the
bathroom hey Sam how are you this is
that kid I'm calling from Colorado who
is it um this is kind of this is an KITT
an ki KI I'm Colorado Colorado yeah
thanks yeah so it's kind of off the
topic but I'm just wondering um I have a
certain opinion about the character of
who from the Census and it was kind of a
couple weeks old now but an Indian
American I kind of had a different
viewpoint then and took kind of some of
the mainstream hold on listen I
definitely want to have this
conversation I definitely do not want to
have it right now we're just taking
we're just we're focusing on the midterm
elections app who is obviously weighing
on everyone's mind but I do want to just
stick with the election but but really
he's my friend Bosh car actually were to
call this in the Guardian which is
pretty fun Colin hi everybody
Ola I'm wondering like this end that he
was a gift online to your email what we
want to send it to us at majority
reporters at gmail.com I'll do that all
right thanks man
hey like I said I really have to go to
the bathroom comb from a five seven for
area code who's this where are you going
from
hi it is you who's this where you coming
from
I'm calling from Indiana and that works
oh I did jump into my IV room quick and
work okay well what if they owe some
good mo some gizmo okay sorry Sam I'm
having be able to get through for like a
year cuz no but whatever um so today
when I plan on voting for Joe Donnelly
I plan on blaring Chopin's funeral march
as I vote because he started uninspiring
that his collaborator but it's really
the best chance we have in Indiana to
affect any change on a national scale
right and polls close at what time
tonight 6:00 p.m. 6:00 p.m. I'll be out
of here in like an hour okay well I
appreciate that and that's gonna be the
big telltale sign we're gonna know by
7:30 I think what the what this what's
going on that race would be my guess
Indiana the only nice thing about voting
is for the most part you really don't
matter so nobody pays any attention to
you but then at the same time your vote
doesn't matter
don't nobody pays attention to you yeah
I mean it makes a difference in terms
Joe Donnelly though that's for sure yeah
I went to high school with his son and
I'm really regretting not throwing him
in a locker right now well I'm sorry to
hear that
but next time that's why folks you
really got to take that opportunity
throw you always have never know because
you'll think to yourself oh maybe he's
having a bad day or something but in the
future you might be resent voting for
their parents and an election so this is
why you bully them today
hashtag bully the right people hashtag
bully at all opportunities some gizmo
thanks so much
Jamie thank you for the follow back on
Twitter oh sorry that that's about damn
thanks for the fallback and Twitter dies
and I'll be subscribing to literary
hangover and antivirus all I've been
subscribing to all four of your shows Oh
Brendon one
guy right here this is a guy knows how
to spend his money whoa right thanks
some gizmo thanks pop I love you back
come from a 303 area code who's this
where he come from oh my god
303 yeah who's this where you come from
hey Sam this is David Parker Colorado
how you doing Dave and Parker Colorado
I'm doing well what's on your mind gotta
be quick
real quick so hopefully this is a
hopeful side of Colorado things to come
over 1.5 million votes cast early
through mail-in ballot about 500 20,000
for the Democrats 515 for the
Republicans 461 and some change for the
unaffiliated which looks like they're
gonna swing to the Democratic column so
hopefully it's going to be a good night
here in Colorado wow that's big I
appreciate the call Dave good news yep
go blue Wow you're a sellout
here well I was wondering like what is
Jimmy doing today like we're gonna do
coverage and hopefully everyone will
loose did you see that way she said that
she thanked all of her supporters that
wasn't really a thanks no Tom from a360
area code who's this where he comes from
this is Casey from the state of Canton
Casey from ah yeah
yes Casey from Washington the state of
Washington and I had for approximately
430 hours of opportunity to vote and I
bet because Washington State is a
mail-in ballot only and we now have
prepaid postage back so all I had to do
is once I received it was finding a pen
with black ink fill it in so anything
list
I consider voter suppression so this the
country has to go into mail-in ballot
only I received my dollar on the 18th of
October it went out in the mail on the
19th of October so when I hear about big
people showing up in large numbers of
different poll sites around the
country it seems so old-fashioned to me
and all tiny
yeah it's absurd it's absolutely absurd
I agree with you this is this this is if
we get a Democratic president someday
this is what has to be a major push well
what has to happen is this and and I've
said this many times we need federal
wean the right to vote needs to be a
federal law needs to be a federal right
and and and and then then the federal
government can impose all of these
different you know reforms to voting but
they can't do it because there's no
basis to them to do it at this point but
I appreciate the call you know I mean to
say that sometimes the Northwest scene
it's kind of like funky rule and we can
do things up here but the risk the
country can't but you know it's Oregon
in Washington and I think two years ago
Colorado implemented all Maryland bail
but it can be done all over the country
okay once you enjoy it
once you enjoy it you will think my god
how did we ever get by without doing it
this way
remember I had 432 hours to vote
I appreciate unions of where I live yeah
okay thank you bye hey and it's all
paper ballots to calling from a five
five nine area code who's this were you
calling from five five nine five five
nine five five nine five five nine call
them from a five seven five area code
who's this where you come from
oh this is running from New Mexico Ryan
what's on your mind oh yeah I was just
the one who tweeted in to you guys
telling you that I'm an exit pollster
who caught Republican poll workers
turning away Hispanic Latino voters on
the day of the county clerk's office is
closed and I'm happy to report that the
cuts also
contravene club was bad has been fired
and will no longer be working at the
polls which is good that's Paul I'm
working at which is the local university
there's a huge line surfing students
become good how far you got to be away
from electioneering and 30 minutes away
from me
that's a port of entry for the media
that their recruiting exercises near
Latino and Hispanic neighborhoods on
this day that we're supposed to be going
out and voting I guess there's a way to
sort of intimidate this course
disgusting well good for you
I appreciate it Ryan thanks for catching
that guy you probably have basically
Rhian franchised tens if not hundreds of
people by yourself
good for you man yeah appreciate the
call thank you and happy to hear that my
County Clerk's office was really quick
[Music]
thanks man there you go folks all right
we're going to take one two three four
five six more callers we have still 33
nine but if you've been on hold for less
than thirty minutes and I can see come
from a-440 area code who's this where
you come from hey hey okay can you hear
me I can yeah where you come from
who's this okay this is Delaney
I mean Ohio district 14 north east of
Cleveland and cats meowing at me
okay so I have two points first off that
see Reiter is a Democrat going up
against Dave Joyce in my district and my
friend talked to her husband and she is
for Medicare for all
I don't know if she takes corporate PAC
money but she is definitely worth voting
for so if you're in Ashtabula County GRE
County or Lake County you're I will say
that you should vote for her okay
because alright fair enough now what's
next what's second point gotta be quick
the second thing is in Ohio issue one is
to make drug offenses misdemeanors and
if you live in this state of Ohio
you should totally vote YES on issue 1
and if you are thinking of not voting
because politics has become poisonous no
nobody's listening who's not voting I
wouldn't let them there they are not
allowed to listen today but I I
appreciate the call people should get
out oh yeah alright thanks man
appreciate the call ain't gotta jump
Thanks called from three four seven area
code who's this we come from three four
seven hello three four seven who is this
where you come from gonna be quick
Rick Rick from New York yeah what are
some good candidates honestly to vote
for it and honestly I do want to thank
you tiles and David Pakman for like
being a great I appreciate it Rick where
are you where are you voting in New York
City
yeah New York City oh I mean the III
don't without knowing all the positions
on your ballot what I do is I vote the
Working Families Party line okay and I'm
on the ballot initiatives people I trust
are saying yes
one yes on two no on three okay thank
you very much those are some things I
did I really want to listen to and I'm
right around where you actually record
the show on fungal I live in Gowanus
right now oh all right send us an email
you want to stop by all right thank you
have a great day Mike call from a 775
area code who's this where he called
from hey Sam this is Reverend Aaron from
Punk for progress oh right I am calling
you from Nevada all right so I am an
anarcho-syndicalist who's going to try
and encourage people to vote so you know
we're in dire straits right yes and
because fashion I feel you man oh I know
you do Jamie now I'm gonna give you one
horrible thing that's happening in
Nevada that should encourage you to vote
and something very cool to vote for as
well right in Nevada our legislation
meets every two years it convenes every
two years in the last legislation there
was a whole Bank of laws that were
written by I don't know core civic the
most alarming of which was the
privatization of parole and probation
which would turn it into a profit-making
industry which would mean they would
have to churn out crime and criminals in
order to profit and atom locks halt who
is currently the Republican running for
governor here has met with core civic
people so it's very important to vote
for Sissel a key to another incredible
person that we get to vote for in the
state of Nevada is autumn zenki she is
running on the Working Families Party
ticket
she loves Labor she not only organizes
actions she's at every single one that
happens in Nevada and I sent her an
audio book a Peter Kropotkin the
conquest of bread and she read it and
she hates capitalism so yes plenty of
reasons to vote in the state of Nevada
all right appreciate if I might be so
bold poster progress we'll be
live-streaming the most awful election
coverage starting 6 p.m. Pacific tonight
alright well I appreciate the call there
you go
also the best phone connection I think
we've had
indeed alright two more calls come from
an eight one three area code who's this
where you come from oh hi Sam this is
Aaron I'm from Tampa Florida I have a
quick question in regards to the
alt-right I am unfortunate enough to
have tons of these insufferable little
shits in my family and I'm worried are
they always brag about how popular they
are and how much influence they have on
YouTube and that progressive channels
aren't that popular and they say that
they're going to come out and vote and
they're gonna stun the US because
there's so many of them and I don't
think that's the case I think they're
just allowed my minority I got it I just
don't know I just never seen the numbers
on it so I just wanted to know what your
thoughts
they will not be stunning the country
they are allowed minority but might have
a portion it amount of say in politics
that's true too
but in terms of like voting strength
fourteen-year-old disaffected boys
cannot vote so they may they may swing
the the the middle school elections but
not the midterms appreciate the call
hang in there good alright thank you bye
call from a 2:05 area code who's this
where you come from oh yeah this was
Petra from Alabama Patrick what's on
your mind I actually called I called you
guys the days before the Doug Jones
special election so I wanted to call you
on the day of election here everything
is going to be a long shot of course but
there's been and Tuesday mccr attic
participation ever since that election
just as a quick reference as far as
minority turnout one reporter saying
that Selma is on pace to outdo 2008
presidential election whoa we may see
really high turnout in the black belt
and I and also seeing high turnout up in
Huntsville which typically he's gone for
Republican but did vote in it for torch
doug jones in that special election so
like I said still everything is a long
shot down here
engine what races do you think there's
the best chance for a pickup ah best
pickup may be Attorney General John
single men's running his father was
Donnell in the last Democratic governor
of Alabama yeah we'll see what happens
in the governor's race local elections
maybe forty four percent of the State
House races
the Democrats are women thirty six
percent of the state Senate races the
Democrats are women so we may see maybe
some turnout for that all right
fantastic I appreciate the call thanks
thank you right all right last call of
the day calling from a nine zero one
area code who's this hello this is me
yeah this is a Dylan from Memphis
Tennessee I was just calling about first
I want to thank you for getting me out
to vote I'm a college student when
didn't vote in 2016 but voted now good
for you and also on the call to go
against David cust off his our
representatives in TN district 8 he
supported Bolton ROP just Bolton are
supported Israel and uh yeah and he
supports uh Blackburn both two horrible
people so yeah I just don't vote for him
even though he might win but uh the
district just went right again in 2011
so maybe he lose hopefully yeah so
thanks appreciate the call Dylan thanks
alright folks that's it for calls we
will be back at 7:30 tonight we'll save
those clips for then right we'll be back
at 7:30 tonight possible guests range
from John Benjamin to know me Const to
Judy gold calling in to
David day in Digby and all sorts of
different folks so if you if you want to
watch some coverage all we're going to
be doing is aggregating it from other
places but we're gonna be aggregating it
from everywhere so the top five coverage
probably that U is available to you
right here you can listen to us on the
audio stream via the app at majority app
comm or you can watch us on YouTube we
will be live all right until then see
you tonight
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
[Music]
brakes you love sweet ride
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
